# 1-6

+ For today's discussion, we'll review the case study on how some animals have behaviorally adapted to their environments. Now you had to read about two animals species, the eastern marmot, and the Olympic marmot. Marmot are rodents, they are large ground squirrels about the size of an average house cat, and they live in a variety of habitats. And even though they spend the signigicant portion of the year hibernating, according to these case study, marmots are still considered excellent subjects for animlas behavioral studies, why is that?
+ Well, when they are not hibernating, you can find them in open areas, and they are pretty active during the day, which makes them easy to observe, right?
+ So first let's discuss the eastern marmots. They reside throughout the eastern region of North America where there's a temperate climate, where the growing season lasts for at least five months of the year, which is when they do all their mating, playing and eating.
+ Oh, I see, at first, I wasn't sure what the growing season meant, just from the reading but now I get it. It's the amount time it takes for them to grow, right? So, it would be five months?
+ Oh, I'm sorry, but no, it has nothing to do with that. It's not about time it takes for eastern marmots to grow, it's when the food is available. That is when it's not covered in snow and there's no frost covering the grass, and vegetation parts of plants, herbs, and the flowers that marmots like to eat. So growing season refers to the availability of the food they eat, OK? So now, how would you describe the Eastern marmots social habits? 
+ Well, they are really territorial, and loners, and just so aggressive, even with other Eastern marmots. So their mating ritual is just so, impersonal.
+ Now when they emerge in the spring from hibernation, the mating preocess begins. For them, they come together to mate and then they go their separate ways. Then about six to eight weeks after birth, the offspring leave their mothers.
+ Really, just six weeks? Is it the possible for offspring to make it ont their own so young?
+ Well, it's not as if they aren't ready for the real world because they are. Remember, they mature quickly and the weather's nice. Also they live in open fields where there's lots of edible vegetation. So rougly six weeks after birth, the eastern marmots are just old enough to take their chances of surviving in a temperate environment. So how does this relate to behavior?
+ Oh, I get it. Since the climates not too bad, the eastern marmots don't have to rely on each other too much, and they really don't need to stay together as a family to survive either.
+ And in contrast, the Olympic marmots, what about them?
+ Well, they live together as a family, and they take care of their young until they are at least two year old. They're really friendly with each other, and What I really like is that they even have greeting ceremoines and they're not at all agressive and territorial like the eastern marmots. So social behavior is so different from eastern marmots because the climate where they live. That seems so bizarre.
+ Well the Olympic marmots inhabit meadows high in the Olympic mountains where the weather condition are much harsher, so there is a lot of more wind and snow. The growing season only lasts about two to three months. So in that much shorter peroid of time, all the Olympic marmots, male and female, eat, play, work and nuture the younger together. Because the climate is so harsh, cooperation increases the survival rate of the Olympic marmots. The keep their younger at home until they are physically able to survive on their own. This could explain why the social behavior of the Olympic marmots is so unlike that of the eastern marmots.