# 10-4

+ S: Hi, I bought this book at the beginning of the semester, but something's come up and I'd like to return it.
+ E: Well, for a full refund, store policy is that you have to return merchandise 2 weeks from the time it was purchased, but for scientifc text books or anything having to do with specific courses. Wait, was it for specific course?
+ S: Yeah, but actually...
+ E: Well, for course books, the deadline is 4 weeks after the beginning of the semester. So for this all semester, the deadline was the October 1st.
+ S: Oh, Then I missed it, but why October 1st.
+ E: I guess the reasoning is that by October 1st, the semester is in full gear. And everyone kinda knows what the course they'll be taking that semester.
+ S: I get it. So it's mainly for people who decide to withdraw from...or to change to new courses early on.
+ E: Exactly. The book have to be in perfect condition of course. They can't be marked or looked uesed in any way, for the full refund, I mean.
+ S: Well, but, my situtation is a little different, I hoped you might be able to make an exception.
+ E: The policy is generally pretty rigid, and the semester is almost over.
+ S: Ok, here is what happened? I think my professor really miscalculated. Anyway the syllabus was way too ambigious in my opinoin. There are only 2 weeks of classes left in the semester and there are like 6 books on the syllabus that we haven't even touched.
+ E: I see, so you're hoping to return in this one.
+ S: Yeah, professor already announced that we won't be reading this one by Jane Bowls, and all the others I bought used.
+ E: Jane Bowls? which book of hers.
+ S: It's called "Two serious ladies".
+ E: But you should keep that one, Are you interested in literature?
+ S: Well, I am a English major.
+ E: You are lucky to have prefessor who includes the lesser known writer like her on the syllabus, you know, not the usual authers we've all read.
+ S: So, you really thinK....
+ E: I do, and specially if you're into literature.
+ S: This I wasn't expecting. I mean...
+ E: I hope you don't think I am being too pushy. If you prefer, you can return the book and arrange for a store credit. You don't qualify for a refund. Policy is policy after all. But you can make an exchange, and you can use the credit for your books for the next semester. The credit carries over from one semester to the next.
+ S: That' good to know, but now I am really intrigued. I guess that just because we run our of the time to read this in class, doesn't mean I can't read it on my own time. You know, I think I'll give it try.