# 13-2

+ P: In the last fifty years or so, many American cities have had difficulty in maintaining a successful retail environment. Business owners in the center or the downtown areas have experienced in some financial losses, because of a steady movement of the people out of the cities and into suburbs. In general, downtown areas just don't have that many residential areas, not that many people live there. So what have city planners decided to do about it? Well, one way they've come up withthe some ways to attract more people to shop downtown was by creating prdestrian malls.
+ What is a prdestrian mall? it's a pretty simple concept really, it's essentially an out door shopping area designing just for people on foot. And unlike many other shopping malls that are built in the suburbs nowadays, these predestrain malls are typically located in the downtown areas of the city, and they have features like wide sidewalks, confortable outdoor seating, may be even fountain and you know art. There are variations on this model of course, but the common denominator is always the idea of creating a shopping space that will get people to shopp in the city without needing their cars. So I'm sure you can see how having an area that's off-limits to automobile traffic would be ideal for heavily populated city where the streets would otherwise be **bustling** with the noise, unpleasant traffic **congestion**. Now the concept which originated in Europe, was adopted by the Ameraican city planners in the late 1950s. And since then, a number of Unites State cities have created the pedestrian malls, and many of them have been highly successful. So what have city planners learned about making these malls succeed.
+ There are two critical factors to consider when creating a pedestrian mall: locations and design. Both of which are equally imporant. Now let's start with location. In choosing a specific location for pedestrian mall there are in fact two considerations, proximity to potential customers, that's we would call a "customers base" and accessbility to public transportation, which we'll get to in just a monent. Now for a customer base, the most obvious example would be a large office building, since the employees could theoretically go shopping after work or during their lunch hour, right? Another really good example is convention center, which typically has a hotel and a large meeting spaces to draw visitors to the city for major business conferences and events. But ideally the pedestrian mall would be used by the local residents, not just the people of working in the city or visiting the area. So that's where access to the public transportation comes in. Either the designer plan to locate the mall near a center transportation hub -- like a bus terminal or a major train or subway station or they work with city officials to create sufficient parking areas not too far from the mall. which make sense because if people can't drive into the mall area they need to have easy access to it.
+ Ok, that's location, but what about the design? Design doesn't necessarily include things like sculptures or decorative walkways or even catching window displays, you know, art. Although I'd be the first to admit that those things are aesthetically appealing. However, visally pleasing sights, they are not a part of the pedestrian mall design that matter the most. The key consideration is a compact and convenient layout. One which allows pedestrians to walk from one end of the mall to the other in just few minutes, so they can get to the major stores, restaurants, and other central places without having to take one or two turns. This takes careful and creative planning.
+ But now what if one ingredient to this planning **reciple** is missing? There could quite possibly be long-lasting effect. And I think a good example is the pedestrian mall in the Louisville Kentucky for instance. Now when the Louisville Kentucky was built, it had lots of visual appeal. It was attractively designed, right in the small part of downtown and it pretty much possessed all of the all of the other design elements for success. But now here is where my point about location comes into play. There wasn't convention center around to help draw visitors and the only nearby hotel eventually colsed down for that the same reason. You can image how the this must affected local and pedestrian mall business owners. Sort of what we call a chain reaction. It wasn't until the convention center and a parking garage were built about decade later that mall started to be successful.