# 13-6

+ Ok, I want to go over the different types of meteorites, and what we've learned from them about formation of the Earth and solar system. The thing is what's especially interesting about the meteorites is that they come from interplanetary space, but they consist of the same chemical composition that are in matter originated on Earth, just in different proportions. But that makes it easier to identify something as a meteorite, as it opposed to just a terrstrial rock. So to talk about where meteorites come from, we need to talk about commets and asteroids, which basically, they are basically made up of debris left over from the origin of the solar system 4.6 billion years ago.
+ Now I'm going a bit out of order here. I'm not going to go into any depth on comets and asteriods now, but we'll come back later and do that. From now, I'll just cover some basic info about them.
+ Ok, comets and asteriods, it might help if you think of... Remember we talked about two classes of planets in our solar system and how they differ in composition. The terrstrial planets like Mars and Earth, composed the largely of the rocks and metals, and the large gas gaints Jupiter. Well the solay system also has two analogous classes of the objects, smaller than planets, namely, asteroids and comets. Relatively near the Sun, in the inner solar system, between Jupiter and Mars to be precise, we've got the asteroids belt, which contains about 90% of all asteriods orbiting the Sun. These asteriods are, like the terrstrial planets, in that they are composed mostly of rocky material and metals.
+ Far from the Sun, and in the outer solar system, beyond Jupiter's orbit, temperatures are low enough to permit ices to form out water and out of gases are like methane and carbox dioxide. Loose collections of these ices and small rocky particles from into comets. So comets are similar in composition to the gas giants. Both comets and asteroids are typically smaller than planets.
+ An even smaller type of interplanetary debris is the meteoroid. And it's from meteoroids, we get meteors and meteorites. Meteorites are, for the most parts anyway, they are just smaller bits of asteroids and comets. When these bits enter Earth atmosphere, that makes them so special that they get special name, They are called "meteros". Most of them are very small, and they burn up soon after entering the Earth's atmosphere. The larger ones that makes it through the atmosphere and hit the ground, are called meteorites. So meteorites are the one that actually make it through.
+ Now we've been finding meteorites on Earth for thousands of years, and we've analyzed enough of them to learn a lot about their composition. Most come from asteriods though a few may have come from comets, so essentially they are rocks, and like rocks they're mixtures of minerals. They are generally classified into three broad catagories: stones, stony irons and irons.
+ Stony meteorites, which we refer to simply as stones are most entirely rock materials. They actually account for almost all of the meteorite material that falls to Earth. But even so, it's rare to ever find one, I mean it's easier to find an iron meteorite or stone iron. Anyone guess why? Look at their names, what do you think iron meteorites consist of?
+ Mostly iron?
+ Yean, iron and some nickle, both of which are metals. And if you're trying to find one metal?
+ Oh, metal detectors.
+ Right, thank you. At least that's part of it. Stone meteorites if they lie around, exposed to the weather for a few years, well, they are made of rock, so they end up looking almost of indistinguishable from common terrestrial rocks, ones that originated on Earth. So it's hard to spot them by eye. But we can use metal detectors to help us find the others, and they are easier to spot by eye. So most of the meteorites in collestions, in musumes, they will be... they are iron meteorites, or the stone iron kind, even though they only make up about 5% of the meteorite material on the ground.