# 14-3

+ Almost all animals have some way of regualting the body temperature, otherwise, they wouldn't survive extreme hot or cold conditions. Sweating, painting, swimming to cooler or warmer water, ducking into somewhere cool like a burrow or a hole under a rock, these just are a few. And that spot is colder or warmer than the surrounding environment, because it is a microclimate. Microclimate is a group of climate conditions that affect a localized area, weather features like temperature, wind and moisture and so on. And when I say localized, I mean really localized, because microclimate can be, as the name suggested, pretty small, even less than a square meter. And microclimate are affected by a huge number of other variables, obviously weather conditions in the surrounding area are a factor. But other aspects of the location, like the elevation of the land, the plant life nearby and so on, have a substantial effect on microclimates. And of course, hunman development in the area, a road will affect a nearby microclimate. It's also interesting to notice that microclimate that are near each other can have very different conditions. In the forest for example, there can be a number of very  diferent microclimates close to each other, because of all the variables I just mentioned.
+ So how does a hole in the ground, a burrow stay cool in a hot climate?
+ Well, since cold air sinks, and these spots are shaded, they are usually much cooler than the surrounding area. And these spots are so important because many animals rely on microclimates to regualte their body temperautre. For instance, there is a species of squirrel in the Western part of the United State that can get really hard when they are out forging for food, so they need a way to cool down. So what do they do? they go back to their own burrow. Once they get their, their body temperautres decrease very very quickly. The trip to the burrow prevents the squirrel from getting too hot.
+ But squirrels are mammals, right? I thought mamamls regualte their temperature internally...
+ Mammals do have ability to regulate their body temperature, but not all can do it to the same degree, or even the same way. Like when you walk outside on a hot day, you perspire and you body cools itself down, a classic example how mammal regualte its own body temperature, but one challenge that squirrels face, many small mammals do, is that because of their size, sweating would make them lose too much mositure, they dehydrate. But on the other hand, their small size allows them to fit into very tiny spaces. So for small mammals, microclimates can make a big differences, they rely on microclimate for survival.
+ So cold-blooded animals like reptiles, they can't control their own body temperture, so I can't imagine the effect a microclimate would have on them.
+ Yes, many reptiles and insects rely on microcliamte to control their body temperature. A lot of reptiles use burrows or stay under rock to cool down. Of course with reptiles, it's a balancing act. Staying in the heat for too long can lead to problems, but staying in the cold can do the same. So reptiles have to be really precise about where they spend their time, even how they position of their bodies. And when I say they are precise, I mean it, some snakes will search out a place under rock of a specific thickness, because too thin of a rock dosen't keep them cool enough and too thick a rock will cause them to get too cold. That level of the precision is cirtical to the snake for maintaining its body temperature. And even microscopic organisms rely on microclimates for survival.
+ Think about it, decomposing leaves create heat that warms the soil, the warm soil in turn affects the growth, the conditions of organisms there and those organisms then affect the rate of the decomposition of the leaves. So a microclimate can be something so small and so easily disturbed that even a tiny change can have a big impact. If someone on a hike knocks a couple of rock over, they could be unwittingly destroying a microclimate that an animals or organisms relies on.