# 14-5

+ Ok, last time we talked about ancient agricultural civilizations that observed the stars and then used those observations to keep tracks of the seasons. But today I want to talk about the importance of stars for early seafears, about how the fixed the patterns of star were used as the navigational aids.
+ Ok, you've all heared about the Viking and their impressive navigation skills, but the seafearing people of the Pacific islands, the Polynesians and the Micronesians, were quite possibly the world's greatest navigators. Long before the development of advanced naviagtion tools and in Europe, pacific islanders were travelling for New Zealand to Hawaii and back again, using nothing but the stars as their navigational instruments.
+ The key to the pacific islanders' success was probably their location near the equator. What that make was that the sky could be partitioned, divided up much more symmetrically than it could farther away from equator. Unlike the Vikings, early observers stars in Polynesia, or really, anywhere along the equator, would feel that they were at the very center of things, with the skies to the north and skies to the south behaving identically; they could see stars going straight up in the east and straight down in the west. So it was easier to discern the order in the sky than farther north, or farther south, where everything would seem more chaotic.
+ Take the case of the Gilbert Islands, they are part of the Polynesia, and lie very close to the equator. And the people there were able to divide the sky into symmertrical boxes, according to the main directions, north, east, south and west. And they could precisely describe the location of a star by indicating its position in one of those imaginary boxes. And they realize that you had to know the stars in order to navigate; in fact, there was only one word for both in the Gilbert Islands; when you wanted a star expert, you asked for a navigator.
+ Islanders from all over the pacific learned to use the star for navigating, and they passed this knowledge down from generation to generation. Some of them utilized stone structure called stone canoes, and those canoes were on land, of course, and you can still see them on some islands today. They were positioned as if they were heading in the direction of the points on the sea horizon where certain stars will appear and disappear during the night. And young would be navigators set up by stones at night and turned in different directions to memorizes the constellations they saw, so they could recognize them and navigate by them later on when they went out to sea.
+ One important way the Polynesians had for orienting themselves was by using zenith stars. Zenith star was a really bright star that would pass directly overhead at the particular latitude, at a particluar distance from equator, often at a latitude associated with some particular pacific island. So Polynesians could estimate their latitude just by looking straight up, by observing whether a certain zenith passed directly overhead at night. They'd know if they have 