# 17-6

+ Now, I want to talk about an animals that have a fascinating set of defense mechanisms, and that's the octpus, one of the unusual creatures that live in the sea. The octpus is prey to many specices including humans, so how does it escape its predators? Well, let me back up here a second, anyone ever hear of Proteus?
+ Proteus was a god in Greek mythology who could change form. He could make himself look like a lion, or a stone, or a tree, anything you wanted, and he could go through a whole series of changes very quickly. The octopus is the real-world version of Proteus, just like Proteus, the octopus can go through all kinds of incredible transformations. And it does this three ways, by changing color, by changing its texture, by changing its size and shape. For me, the most fascinating transformation is when it changes its color. its normal skin color, the one it generally presents, is either red and brown, or even gray and it's speckled with dark spots. But when it wants to blend in with its environment, to hide from its enemies, it can take on the color of its immediate surroundings, the ocean floor, a rock, a piece of croal, whatever.
+ Charles?
+ Do we know how that works, I mean how they change colors?
+ We know that the reaction that takes place is not chemical in nature. The color changes are executed by two different kinds of cells in the octopus's skin, mainly by color cells on the skin's surface, called chromatophores. 
+ Chromatophores consist of tiny sacs filled with colored dye. There might be a couple of hundred of these colors sacs per sqaure millimeter of the octopus's skin,and depending on the species, they can come in as many as five different colors. Each one of these sacs is controlled by muscles. If the muscles are relaxed, the sac shrinks, and all you see is a little white point. But if the muscles contract, then the sac expands, and you can see the colors. And by expanding different combinations of these color sac to different degrees, the octopus can create all sort of colors. Yes, Elizabeth?
+ And just with various combinations of those five colors, they can recreate any color in their environment?
+ Oh, they can no doubt create a lot with just those five colors, and you are right, maybe they can't mimic every color around them? So that's where the second kind cell of comes in. Just below the chromatophores is a layer of cells that reflect light from environment, and these cells help the octopus create a precise match with the colors that surround them. The colors from color sacs are supplemented with colors that are reflected from environment and that's how they're able to mimic the colors with such precision.
+ So that's how octopuses mimic colors. But they don't just mimic the colors in their environment, they can also mimic the texture of the objects in their environment. They have these little prejections on their skin that allow them to resemble various textures. The prejections are called papillae. If the octopus wants to have a rough texture, it raises the papillae; if it wants have a smooth texture, it flatten out the papillae. So it can acquire a smooth texture to blend in with the sandy bottom of the sea. So the octopus has the ability to mimic both the color and texture of its environment, and it's truly amazing how well it can blend in with its surroundings. You can easily swim within a few feet of an octopus and never see it.
+ I read that they often hide from predators by squirting out a cloud of ink or something like that? 
+ Yes, the octopus can release a cloud of ink if it feels threatened, and but it doesn't hide behind it, as is generally believed. The ink cloud is, it serves to distract a predator while the octopus makes its escape. Now, there is a third way that octopus can transform themselves to blend in with or mimic their environment, that's by changing their shape and size, at least their apparent size. The muscular system of octopus enables it to be very flexible, to assume all sorts of shapes and postures. So it can contract into the shape of a little round stone, and sit perfectly still on the sea floor, or it can nestle up in the middle of a plant and take the shape of one of the leaves, even the Proteus would be impressed, I think.