# 18-6

+ Well, it's finally looking like spring is arriving, the last of the winter snow will be melting away in a few days. So before we close today, I thought I'd mention a biological event that's part of the transition from winter to spring, something you can go outside and watch, if you have some patience. There's samll create that live in this area, you've probably seen it: it's the North American wood frog.
+ Now wood frog's not that easy to spot, since it stays pretty close to ground, under leaves and thing, and it's blends in really well within its background, as you can see. But ther're worth the effort, because they do something very unusual, something you might not have even thought possible.
+ Ok, North American wood frogs live over a very broad territory, or range they're found all over the northeastern United State and all through Canada and Alaska even inside the Arctic Circle. No other frog is able to live that far north. But wherever they live, once the weather starts to trun cold, and the temperatures start to drop below freezing as soon as the frog even touch ice crystal or a bit of frozen ground well, it begins to freeze. Yes, Jimmy, You look a bit taken back.
+ Wait, you mean, it'll still alive, but it freezes, Solid?
+ Well, almost, Ice forms in all the spaces outside cells, but never within a cell.
+ But, then how dose its heart beat?
+ It doesn't.
+ But How can I...
+ How can it do such a thing? Well, that's first touch of ice apparently triggers a biological response inside the frog, that first of all starts drawing water away from the center of its body. So the middle part of the frog, its internal organs, it's heart, lungs, liver, these star getting drier and drier, while the water that's being pulled away is forming a puddle around the organs, just underneath the skin. And then that puddle of water starts to freeze.
+ Ok, up to now the frog's heart is still beating, right? Slower and slower, and in those last few hours before it freezes, it distributes glucose, a blood sugar, throughout its body, its circulatory system, Sort of act like an antifreeze...
+ A solution of antifreeze, like you put in your car in winter.
+ Well, you tell me, in frog, the extra glucose make it harder for the water inside the cells to freeze, so the cells stay just slightly wet, enough so that they can survive in the winter. Then after that, the heart stop beating altogether, so is that the same?
+ I don't really know, but how long dose it stay that way?
+ Well, it could be days or even month, all winter, in fact. But see the heart really doesn't need to do any pumping now, because the blood is freeze too.
+ I just, I guess I just don't see how it isn't, you know, clinically dead.
+ Well, that's the amazing thing. And how it revives is pretty amazing too. After months without a heartbeat, springtime comes around again, the Earth starts to warm up, and suddenly, one day, ping... A pulse, followed by another one, then another, until, maybe, ten, twelve hours later, the animals is fully recovered.
+ And does the thawing process have some kind of trigger as well?
+ Well, we're not sure, actually. The peculiar thing is, even thoung the sun is warming the frog up on the inside, its inside thaw out first, the heart and brain and everything. But somehow, it all just happens that way every spring.
+ And after they thaw? Does it affect them? Like their life span. Well, we really don't know a lot about how long a wood frog normally live, prabablt just a few years. But there's no evidence that the freezing process affects its longevity it deos have some other impacts though. In studies, we've found that when it comes to reproduction freezing diminishes the mating performance of males, after being frozen, and thawed of course, they don't seem quite as vocal, the move slower and they seem to have a harder time recongnizing a potential mate. So if a male could manage not to go through this freezing cycle, he'd probably have more success at mating.