# 2-2

+ Now, many people consider John Waston to be the founder of behaviorism. And like other behaviorists, he believed that psychologists should study only the behaviors they can observe and measure. They're not interested in mental proceses. While a person could describe his thought, no one knows can see or hear them to verify the accuracy of his report. But one thing you can observe is muscular habits. What Waston did was to observe muscular habits because his viewed them as a manifestation of thinking. One kind of habits that he studied are laryngeal habits.
+ Waston thought laryngeal habits, you know, in other words, related to the voice box, he thought those habits were an expression of thinking. He argue that for very young children, thinking is really talking out loud to oneself because they talk out even if they're not trying to communicate with someone in paricular. As the individual matures, that over talking to oneself becomes convert talking to oneself, but thinking still shows up as a laryngeal habit. One of the bits evidence that support this is that when people are trying to solve a problem, they typically have increased muscular activity in their throat region. That is if you put electrodes on the throat and measure muscle potential, muscle activity, you discover that when people are thinking, like if they're diligently trying to solve a problem, that there is muscular activity in the throat region.
+ So Waston made the argument that problem solving, or thinking can be defined as a set of behaviors - a set of responses - and in this case the response he observed was the throat activity. That's what he means when he calls it a laryngeal habit. Now as I am thinking about what I am going to be saying, my muscles in my throat are responding. So thinking can be measured as muscle activity. Now the motor theory... yes?
+ Professor Blake, did he happen to look at people who sign? I mean deaf people?
+ He did indeed. And to jump ahead, what one finds in deaf individuals who use sign language... when they're given problems of various kinds, they have muscular changes in their hands when they are trying to solve a problem, musucle changes in the hand, just like the muscular changes going on in the throat region for speaking individuals. So for Waston, thinking is identical with the activity of muscles. A related concept of thinking was developed by William James. It's called ideomotor action.
+ Ideomotor action is an activity that occurs without our noticing it, without our being aware of it. I'll give you one simple example. If you think of locations, there tends to be eye movement that occurs with your thinking about that location. In particular, from where we're sitting, imageine that you're asked to think of our university library. Well, if you close you eyes and think of the library, and if you're sitting directly facing me, then according to this nition, your eyeballs will move slightly to the left, to your left, cause the library's in that general direction.
+ James and other said that this is an idea leading to a motor action, and that's why it's called "ideomotor action", and idea leads to motor activity. If we wish to impress your friends and relatives, you can change this simple process into a magic trick. Ask people to do something such as I've just described, think of something on their left, think of something on their right. You get them to think about two things on either side with their eyes closed, and you watch their eyes very carefully.
+ And if you do that, you'll discover that you can see rather clearly the eye movement, that is you can see the movement of the eyeballs. Now then you say, think of either one and I'll tell you which you're thinking of.
+ Ok, well, Waston makes the assumption that muscular activity is equivalent to thinking. But given everything we've been talking about here one has to ask: are there alternatives to this motor theory - this claim that muscular activities are equivalent to thinking? Is there anything else that might account for this change in muscular activity, other than saying that it is thinking? And the answer is clearly yes. Is there any way to question definitively? Now I think the answer is no.