# 2-6

+ Ok, let's get going, today I'm going to talk about how the asteriod belt was discovered, and I'm going to start by writing some numbers on the board. Here they are. We'll start with zero, three, six, twelve. Tell me what I'm doing.
+ Multiplying by 2?
+ Right, doubling numbers, so two times twelve is twenty four, and the next one I'm going to write after twenty four would be?
+ Forty-eight.
+ Forty-eight, then ninty-six. We'll stop there for now, now I'll wirte another row of number under that. Tell me what I'm doing. Four, seven, ten, how am I get the second row?
+ Adding four to the number in the first row.
+ Adding four to the each number of first row to give you a second row. So the last two will be fifty-two, one hundred, and now tell me what I'm doing?
+ Putting in a decimal?
+ Yes, I divide all those numbers by 10 by putting in a decimal point. Now I'm going to write the name of the planet under the numbers. Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars. So what do the number mean, do you remember from the reading?
+ Is it the distance of the planet from the Sun?
+ Right, In astronomical units, not perfectly, but tantalizingly close. The value for Mars is off by 6 or 7 percent or so, but it's within ten percent of the average distance to Mars from the Sun. But I kind of have to skip the one after Mars for now. Then Jupiter's right there at five point something, and then Saturn is about ten astronomical units from the Sun. Well, this pattern is known as Bode's Low.
+ It isn't really a scientific law, not in the sense of predicting gravitation mathematically or something, but it's attempting a pattern in the spacing of the planet, and it was noticed by Bode hundreds of years ago. Well you an imagine that there was some interest in why the 2.8 spot in the parttern was skipped, but it was anything obvious there, in the early telescopes. Then what happened the later seventeen hundrend, the discovery of...?
+ Another planet?
+ The next planet out, Uranus, after Saturn. And look, Uranus fits in the next spot in the pattern pretty nicely, not perfectly, but close.
+ And so then people got really excited about the validity of this thing, and finding the missing object between Mars and Jupiter. And telescope, remember was getting better, so people when to work on finding objects that would be at that missing distance from the Sun, and then in 1801, the object Ceres was discovered.
+ And Ceres was in the right place, the missing spot. But it was the way too faint to be a planet. It looked like a little star. and because of its star like appearance, it was called an "asteroid". Ok, "Aster" is Greek for "star", as in "astronomy". And so Ceres was first and is the largest of what become many objects discovered at that same distance. Not just one thing, but all the objects found that distance from the asteroid belt. So the asteroid belt is the most famous success of this Bode's Law. That's how the asteroid belt was discovered.