# 20-4

+ S: Professor Jennings? I hope I am not interrupting, but you wanted to see me?
+ P: Oh, hello, Suzanne, Yes, come right in. How're you doing?
+ S: Alright.
+ P: Good, The reason I wanted to talk to you was that while you were presenting your linguistic project in class the other day, well, you know, I was thinking, you're a perfect candidate for the Dean's Undergraduate Research Fund.
+ S: Oh, professor, I am not really sure,what the Dean's...
+ P: Undergraduate Research Fund is? it is a mounthful, I suppose. Ok, here is the thing, every year the school has a pool of money to fund a number of research projects of undergraduate students because, you can imagine, in-depth research often requires monetary support.
+ S: I would like to expand on my research.
+ P: Good, first a panel of professors reviews the applications for the grant, and then they decide on which research projects should be funded. The allotted money can be used for travel expenses, to attend a conference, for example, or or things like supplies, research equipment, resources that are necessary to conduct the research.
+ S: I see.
+ P: Right, and I think you should apply for this grant. Your projects is definitely eligible. And you could expand it if you had the necessary resources. So does it sound like something you'd be interested in?
+ S: Oh, yeah, sounds great. I thought the topic I worked on was really interesting. And it's certainly revelant to my linguistics major. I assume it would also look good when I try to get into graduate school. But how do I apply for then grant?
+ P: It's pretty straightforward. A brief description of your proposed project, and an estimated budget, how much you'd need to spend and what you intend to spend it on. Also, a glowing letter of recommendation from a linguistics professor wouldn't hurt, which I'd more than happy to wirte up for you.
+ S: OK, cool, but I'm pretty clear on how to carry out my project, But I'm not sure where I can find more information on the subjects.
+ P: Well, I've already thought of that. There's this private library at a university in Boston, by the way because I graduated from that school, I can get you access to it, no problem, see, the library houses lots of unpublished documents that are revelant to your topic.
+ S: So I could put that in the application for the grant that I plan on using material from that library for my research, and figure out a trip on Boston into my budget?
+ P: Exactly, I really think judging from your work in class, and the relevance and clairty of this project, you really have a good chance of getting the funding.
+ S: OK, I'll definitely apply then.
+ P: Well, the sooner the better, it's due in a few weeks, good luck, and I'll get that letter written up right away.