# 21-2

+ Ok, we've been talking about how throughout the history, it was often diffculty for people to give up ideas which had a long been taken granted for as scientific truth, even if those ideas were false. In **astronomy** for example, the distinction between the solar system and the university wasn't clear until modern times. The ancient Greeks believed that what we called the solar system was in fact the entire universe, and that universe was geocentric.
+ Geocentric means Earth centered, so the geocentric view holds that the Sun, the planets, the stars all revolve around the Earth, which is stationary. Of course, we now know the planets including Earth, revolve around the Sun, and that solar system is only tiny part of the universe.
+ So why did the ancient Greeks believe that the Earth was the center of the universe? It made sense to them, observations of the sky made it appear as if the Sun, the Moon and the stars all revolved around the Earth every day, while the Earth itself stayed in one place. And this view was also supported by their philosophical and religious beliefs about the origin and structure of the universe. It was presented in the works of well-known Greek philosophers as early as the fourth century B.C.E. And the geocentric theory continued to prevail in Western thought for almost 2000 years until the seventeeth century.
+ Now what's especially interesting is that when astronomical observations were made that seemed to be inconisitent with geocentric view, the ancient Greeks did not really to consider alternate the theories. It was so intuitive, so sensive that the Earth the center of the universe, that the astronomers found the ways to expalin those seemingly inconsistent phenomenona within the geocentric view.
+ For example, Greek astronomers made excellent very accurate observations of the movement of the planets. But the observations revealed a bit of problem. The geocentric theory said that the planets would move around of Earth in one direction. However, astronomers noticed at that times several planets seem to start moving in one direction and star moving backward in their orbits around Earth. And they came up with the theroy that these planets themselves moved in samller circle, called epicycles, as they traveled around the Earth. Here is a picture what they imagined.
+ You see how this epicycle theory could account for the seeing backward motion of the planet. Of course, today we know that this appearance of backward motion is caused by the fact that Earth as well as other planets all move in their own orbit around the Sun, and the relative movements of the planets with respect to each other can get quiet complex.
+ However, there were a few asronomers in Greek and other places who didn't agree withe geocentric view for example, Greek astronomers who lived in the third century B.C.E. He proposed the theory that our planetary system might be heliocentric. His name was Aristarchus.
+ "Heliocentric" means Sun centerted -- that's the Earth revolved around the Sun. Aristarchus recongnized from his calculation that The Sun was much larger than the Earth and other planets. It was probably this discovery that led him to conclude that the universe is heliocentric. I mean, isn't it any sensible to think that the smaller heavenly body would orbit a lager one rather than the opposite?
+ However, his proposition was rejected, largely based on other scentific beliefs held at that time, which all make sense in the way even if they were incorrect. let me mention two objections Greeks made to Aristarchus's theory. First, they believed that everything that moved created its own wind, so to speak, everyone has this experiences when you're running right? So they thought that if the Earth itself moving, there would have to be a constant wind blowing, sweeping them off their feet and of course there wasn't.
+ And second, the idea of the Earth that moved didn't fit in with the ancient Greek's understading of the gravity. They thougt that the gravity was based a natural tendency of all things to move toward the center of the universe, which was the Earth, or the center of the Earth. So that explained why apples and other falling objects were falling straight down. If the Sun was at the center of the unverise, thing would fall toward the Sun and away from the Earth. Which of course they didn't. So these were some of the reasons they rejected the heliocentric theory.