# 22-5

+ A mass extinction is when numerous species become extinct over a very short time period, short, geologically speaking, that is, like when the dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago. And the fossil record, it indicates that all the time that animals have inhabited Earth, there've been five great mass extinction, dinosaurs being the most recent. In each of the others, up to half all land animals and up to 95 percent of marine species disappeared.
+ Well, today, we're witnessing a sixth mass extinction, but unlike the others, the current loss of bioldiversity can be traced to human activities. Since the Stone Age, humans have beening eliminnating specices and altering ecosystems without astounding speed, coutlessly speices have disappeared due to overhunting, habitat destruction and habitat fragmentation, pollution, and other unnatural, human causes.
+ So, as a way of repairing some of that damage, a group of conservation biologists has proposed an ambitious, some might say a radical-plan, involving large vegetables, or megafanua.
+ Megafanua include elephants, wild horse, big cats, camels-large animals. Actually, the proposed focus on a particular subset of megafanua, the kind that lived durin a Pleistocene epoch. Ok, the Pleistocene epoch most commonly known as the Ice Age, stretched from 1.8 million to 11500 years age. In the America, most of megafanua began disappearing by the enf of the Pleistocene.
+ So here is the biologists' idea, Takes a select group of animals, megafanua from places like African and Asia, and introduce them into another ecosystems similar to their current homes, beginning in the western United States. They called the plan Pleistocene rewilding.
+ Now the advocates of Pleistocene rewilding cite two goals. One is to help prevent the extinction of some endangered megafauna by providing new refuges, new habitats for them. The others's to restore some of the evolutionary and ecolocial potential that's been lost in North America. What do I mean by "restore evolutionary potential"?
+ Well, as you know, the evolutionary of any species is largely influenced by interactions with other species. So during the Pleistocene epoch, let's talk the now-extinction American cheetah, for instance. We believe it played a pivotal role in the evolution of the pronghorn antelope, the antelope's amazing speed, to be exact, because natural selection woule favor those antelope that could outrun a cheetah. When American cheetah disappeared, their influence on the evolution of pronghorn, and presumably on other prey animals, stopped.
+ So it's conceivable that the pronghorn antelope would've continued to evolve, get faster maybe, if the cheetahs were still around. That's what's meant by "evolutionary potential". Importing African cheetahs to the western United State could, in theory, put the pronghorn back onto its natural evolutionary trajactory, according to these biologists. Another example is the interaction of megafanua with local flora, in particular, plants that rely on animals to disperse their seeds. Like Pleistocene rewilding could spark the reemergence of the large-seeded American plants, such as the maclura tree.
+ Many types of maclura used to grow in North America, but today, just one variety remains, and it's found in only two states. In the distant past, large herbivores, like mastodons, dispersed maclura seeds, each the size of an orange, in their droppings. Well, there aren't any mastodons left, but there are elephants, which descends from mastodons. Introduce elephants into that ecosystem, and they might disperse those large maclura seeds, like their ancestor did.
+ Get the idea? Restoring some of the former balance to the ecosystem? But as I alluded to earlier, Pleistocene rewilding is extremely controversial. A big worry is that these transplanted megafanua might devastate plants and animals that are native to the western United States. In the years since the Pleistocene epoch, native species have adapted to the changing environment there, plants, smaller animals, they've been evolving without megafauna for millennia.
+ Also, animals species that went extinct 11000 years ago, some are quite different genetically from their modern-day counterparts. Like, elephants don't have thick coats like their mastodon acestors did when they grazed the prairies of the American West during the Ice Age. Granted, the climate today is not as cold as it was in the Pleistocene, but winters on the prairie can still get pretty harsh today.
+ And there are many more considerations, you see how complex this is. If you think about it though, the core problem with this "sixth mass extinction" is human interference. Pleistocene rewilding's based on good intentions, but you know, it probably would just be more of the same thing.