# 24-3

+ As we've been studying, ballet, the classical ballet, is based on formalized of movements, specific positioning of the arms, of the feet, and the body. So now let's move on modern dance, also known as "**theatrical** dance". Modern dance evolved in the late nineteenth century - early twentieth century, and in most cases, audiences were very receptive to this radical new type of performing art.
+ What made the modern dance so radical?
+ Well, for exmaple, I think the best **analogy** to modern dance is the modern art or modern music. Compared to their classical **predecessors**, this newer art forms are freer, more **experimental**, more **improvisational**. Modern dance seeks to show how deep motions, and music itself, how these **intangible** attributes can affect and inspire physical movement and how movement can **convey** emotions to the audience. As I said, in classical ballet, emotions are conveyed through a set of strictly formalized movements. 
+ Now, a **pioneer** of modern dance was Isadora Duncan, was born in 1878, Isadora Duncan did study ballet briefly as a child, but she quickly developed her own unique style, which she called free dance.
+ And by age fourteen, she was teaching for free dance to young children, and giving **recitals**. Her early dance technically was loosely based on natural movement of children, running, skipping, acting out stories, also on motions from nature, waves crashing onto shore, trees **swaying** in the wind.
+ Her expressive gestures were motivated from within rather than being **dictated** by strict technique. Duncan also wore her hair down, ballerinas typically wear their hair in a tight bun behind the head. And instead of the short **stiff** skirts and rigid toe shoes worn by ballerinas, Duncan wore loose, flowing **tunics**, and she danced barefoot. Now that was something her audience had never seen before. Duncan performed in Paris and other European cities, dancing to the music of classical compositions but avoiding set movements and steps, no two performances were like, and audience, for the most part, adored her. In 1904, she opened a school of modern dance in Berlin, and next year she performed in Russia. But the Russia critics were not very kind, some said Duncan's art form was closer to **pantomime** than to dance. But her style was a clearly **rebellion** against ballet, and ballet is extremely important in Russia. A quesion, Julie?
+ What did Duncan have against ballet, I mean she studied it as a child?
+ As a youngster, She may have found it too restrictive, not creative enough. I think that feeling is **exemplified** by something that happened early in her career, in Russia. Duncan attended a ballet, and lead dancer was the **renewned** Russia ballerina, Anna Pavlova.
+ The follwing day, Pavlova invited Duncan to watch her practice. Duncan accepted but was **appalled** by what she saw. To her, the exercises that the Pavlova and other barllerians were doing seem painful, even harmful, standing on tiptoe for hours, moving the bodies in unnatural ways. 
+ After seeing this, Duncan publicly denounced the ballet as a form of **acrobatics**, a complicated and **excruciating** mechanism she called. This **critique** generated, I think some undue **rivarly** between ballet and modern dance. And it would take a long time, many years in fact, for that rivarly to clam down.