# 24-5

+ Between 11000 and 10000 B.C.E, North America was populated by a wide variety of great beasts like mamoths and mastodons, both elephant like creatures with big tusks, and camels, gaint sloths... the list goes on. By about 10000 B.C.E, all those gaint creatures the magefauna of North America, were gone. We don't know exatcly what happened to them, but there are some theories.
+ One theory is that they were hunted to extinction by humans. The humans who ecoexist with those gaint species in North America at the that time were that we today call the Cloivs people.
+ And there's a Clovis site in a valley in Southern California where the remains of thirteen mammoths were found. And spear points, tools for processing meat, and fireplaces. That would appear to be some pretty compelling evidence. Mammoth bones have also been found at some other Clovis sites... But then, at other Clovis sites, there's also a lot of evidence that the Clovis people mostly gathered plants and hunted small game, like rabbits and wild turkeys. Also there are several places the North America where you have natural accumulations of mammoth bones that look very similar to the accumulations at the Clovis sites, except there's no human debris, where the mammoths almost certainly died as the result of some kind of natural disaster... So I think it's quite likely that those thirteen mammoths in Southern California also died of natural causes... and that the Clovis people simply took advantage of the situation.
+ Ok, that's the hunting theory. Now let look at the other theory, an alterantive to the hunting theory, the climate change theory.
+ At round 115000 B.C.E, the world was coming out of an ice age. And with that came increased seasonality that is the summers became warmer and the winters acutally became cold. These extremes shifts would have put a lot of stress on the bodies of animals that were used to a more moderate range of temperatures. But the most important impact of this increased seasonality may very well have been its effect on the distribution of plants. Today we take granted for that there are horizontal bands of the plants communities: in the far north is tundra, which gives away to forest as you move southward, and even farther south, grasslands take over. But during the ice age, these plant communities grow together, mixted with one another. So ice-age animals had access to many different types of plants, different types of food. But when the seasons became more distinct, the plant communities were pulled apart. That meant that in any given area there was less plant diversity. And as a result, so the theroy goes, the ice-age animals that depended on the plant diversity couldn't survive, and the great beasts were the one that needed the most diversity in their diet.
+ Again, we have what at first seems like a pretty attractively theory. But then, how do you explain the fact that this happened before, you know, global cooling followed by global warming, and there was no extinction then...
+ You know, I recently read an interestring article about an archaeologist who tried to solve this puzzle with the help of his computer. What did he was, he wrote a computer program to simulate what would happen to mammoths under certain conditions, say, for example, there's a drought for a couple of decades, or hunters are killing off 5 percent of the population, and so on. One thing you found was that the humans didn't necessarily have to kill these animals in great numbers in order to nudge them toward extinction. That's because vert large animals have a slow rate of reproduction so all you have to do is remove a few young femals from the herd, and you can, fairly quickly, significantly reduce the population. And then he came up with a scenario that combined some hunting by humans with some environmental stress, and bang! The simluated mammoths were extinct within decades. So it seems the mixtures of hunting and climate change is a likely scenario. Of course computer simulations are not a substitute for hard evidence(25)