# 27-2

+ So we've been fairly thorough in our discussion about coral reefs, which of course are prominent oceanic features made of hard, limestone skeletons produced by tiny coral animals. We've gone over where coral reefs are usually formed, along the edges of the shallow ocean banks in tropical and subtropical regions. And in fact that they are declining at an alarming rate, But I don't want to leave you with the impression that all is lost... There are serveral techniques being employed today that could prove useful in assuring the feature of the reefs. 
+ Now we've talked in depth about coral bleaching or whiting, which you'll recall, is a symptom of, that coral is suffering. As you know, coral is very sensitive to water temperature. Even an one or two degree Celsius rise in sea surface temperature for a relatively short amount of time can cause bleaching. Recently reasearchers have used data collected by monitoring surface water temperatures to improve the ability of a reef to recover from blenching. One future possibility is that improved monitoring can help predict where and when blenching will occur, which might potentially enable us to migrate its effects.
+ And there's another technique that's being experimented with to try to help coral reefs recover from blenching, It's called coral transplantation. This involves moving young coral from help a healthy reef into a degraded reef, you know in an attempt to regenerate the degraded reef by encouraging young, healthy coral to take over. There has been some success with this, but it's still somewhat controversial. Some scientists support it, because for one thing, it means you don't have to rely on the existing coral to reestablish itself, because it might not be able to. But in my opinoin, transplanting coral should only be used as a last resort. I mean this method isn't only costly, but even it's sucessful, it still fails to address the ongoing problem, the root causes of the degradation, which really paramount to divising an effective solution. So I don't really take comfort in the successes that they've had with transplantation.
+ Perhaps a more consructive use of our time could be spent researching corals that do survive, like in areas knowns as refugia.
+ Refugia are areas on the reef that are seemingly resisitant to bleaching. See, when coral reefs experience blenching, it's rarely a case of the whole reef being affected. There are almost always pockets of coral on the reefs that remain unaffected... and these are often the lower areas of the reefs... those located in deeper water, where temperautres are lower. There are almost always pockets of croal on the reefs that remain unaffacted... and these are often the lower areas of the reefs, those located in the deep water, where temperatures are lower. Now we have evidences that coral in these locations are able to escape the destructive bleaching that affects portions of the reef in shallows, warmer water. So in my mind, it's these refugia that are the key components of overall reef resilience... These should be the area of concentration for researchers, to locate and protect those regions as a way to sustain coral reefs.
+ And we can also protect reefs by protecting the surrounding ecosystems, like mangrove forests and sea grass beds. Both of these grow in coastal waters often in the vicinity of coral reefs. By protecting these areas, we also protect the coral. Like takes for example, the mangrove forests. Mangrove root system have the ability to absorb and trap sediments and pollutants water in water that flows through them before they enter the ocean. This of course has beneficial results for the nearby coral reefs.
+ And fishers management is another key strategy. Over fishing can be seriously disruptive to coral. Let me give you a couple of examples. Over fishing certain speicies of fish and shellfish like snappers, barracudas, and even lobsters, well all of these creatures feed on snails, worms and other organisms that eat coral, so depleting the number of lobsters, for example, means that we're adding to the threat of coral declines. Sea urchins are another example. They eat algae and prevent it from overwhelming the coral. Since the disappearance of sea urchins from the water off the coast of south Florida, many coral reefs there have been smothered by uncontroled growth of algae.