# 27-3

+ So, musical instruments evolved in ways that optimized their acoustical properties, how the instrument **vibrates** and sends those vibrations through the air to our eardrums.
+ Now, professional musicians are very particular about their instruments. They want instruments that help them fully express their the intent of the composer, which of course, translates into a more enjoyable listening experience for the audience members. Most audience members probably aren't even aware of how much the instrument matters. I mean think about the last concert you attended. When you **applauded**, what went through your mind?
+ I recently heared a **violinist** who totally blew me away, so when I applauded, I guess I was showing my appreciation for his skills, the hours of practice he must've put in.
+ And his violinist?
+ Didn't really think about it. It looked exactly like mime, which is inspiring, in a way, knowing my violin could also produce such beautiful tones, that maybe I'll sound that good someday.
+ I hope you do, but if your violin isn't as good as his..
+ You mean, he might not sound as good playing my violin.
+ As I said, tone quality differs from instruments to instruments. The question is why? Why dose one instrument sound more beautiful than other, even if they look identical? There's a particular cast with an extraordinary generation of violions made in northern Italy, In the city of Cremona, back in the late 1600s early 1700s.
+ These **vintage** Cremonese violins are considered the best in the world. But it's not like the markers of those violins were any more skilled than the modern-day counterparts; they weren't. Today's top violins markers can pretty much replicate all of the physical attributes of a Cremonese violin. But it's generally thought that the acoustical quality of modern violins doesn't live up to the quality of the vintage ones.
+ So what the attributes of the old violins have been replicated?
+ Their demensions, shapes, their figureboard height, general craftsmanship. For a long time, people thought the vintage used to be coat and protect the violins was special. But research showed it was the same ordinary varnish used on the **furniture**. However, research have discovered that there are something speical about wood  the violins were made from, and recently they've been able to replicate that too.
+ How unless the tress the Cremonses uesd are still alive.
+ The trees weren't replicated, just the wood, specifically the wood's density. Density's determined by how the trees grow. Trees, all trees that don't grow in the tropics, grow seasonally. They grow faster early in the year in the springtime than they do later in the year. So early growth wood is relatively porous, late-growth wood is denser, less porpus. And this variation shows up in the tree's growth rings. And the denser layers are generally darker than the less-denser layers. We call this variation the "density differential".
+ Variation in wood density affect the viberations, and therefore sound. When scientists first analyzed that the wood of vantage Cremonese violins and compared it with the modern violins wood, they calculated the average density and found no difference. Later, other researchers measure the density differential and found a significiant difference, modern violins had a greater variation, a lager differential.
+ So you mean the density of the wood in the Cremonese violins is more uniform?
+ Correct.
+ But northern Italy isn't in the tropics.
+ No, but climate matters. Turns out the Cremonese vionlins were made from the trees that grew during a "little ice age", a period when temperatures across the Europe were significiantly lower than normal. So the trees grow more evenly throughout the year, making the density differential relatively small.
+ But you said someone replicated the Cremonese wood.
+ The density differential was replicated.
+ What did they do, try to simulate an ice-age climate in a greenhouse and grow some trees in there?
+ No, what happened was a materials scientists figure out a way to process wood to make it acoustically similar to the Cremonese wood. He basically esposed the wood to a species of fungus, a mushroom. In the forest, fungi are decomposers; they break down dead wood. But these particular fungus **nibbles** away only at certain layers in the wood, leaving other layers alone. As a results, the density differential of the fungi-treated wood approached that of the Cremonese wood.