# 27-5

+ Your Reading for today touched on dinosaur fossile from the Mesozoic era, which ended about 65 millions years ago. Today we'll be discussing the sauropods.
+ I think our discussion of sauropods will illustarte what we can learn by comparing the fossile record to modern animals. By fossils, we mean traces of prehistoric animals such as bones, which become mineralized, or impressions bones organs that're left in stone.
+ Now, sauropods were among the largest animals to exit, ever. They were larger than blue whales, which are the largest animals alive today, they weighed up to 100 tons, 20 times as much as elephants. Also they were an extremely successful kind of dinosaur, there is evidence of souropods in the fossil record for an unusually long time, over 100 millions years. So why were souropods so sucessful?
+ By biological speaking, souropods shouldn't have been successful. Large animals, like elephants say, they require much more food and energy, and have fewer offspring than smaller animals, this makes maintaining a popluation harder. The largest animals today don't live on land, but in the ocean where food's easy to find. A blue whales, for instance, can eat up to 8000 pounds of food a day, and they give birth only once every few years. We also know the body heat, large animals can't easily get rid of excess body heat, but for an ocean going whale, that's not a problem, for a 100-ton land animals, it can be.
+ For years, we've assumed that it was abundant plant life of the Mesozoic that allowed these giants to thrive. However we now know that since oxygen levels were much lower in the Mesozoic than we'd assumed, there was much less plant life for souropods to eat than we'd thought. So now, we are looking at other, we are trying to understand the biology of sauropods, comparing the fossils to the anatomy of modern animals to get better idea of how they lived.
+ What we found is that the sauropods were experts in conserving energy. They had enormous stomach capacity, the ability to digest food over a long period, converting it to energy at a lower pace, "saving it" for later. For animals with small stomach it takes lots of energy to constantly look for food and then digest it, with large stomachs and slower digestion, you don't need to as much energy. Joseph?
+ Do scientists actually know about the sauropods for looking, I mean how much can we actually learning looking at some ancient bones, compared to all we can learn from modern animals? and comparisons between animals that lived millions of years apart, it just seems more like guessing?
+ There are always some guesswork when studying extinct animals, but that's exactly what leads to discoveries? A hypothesis, a type of guess is made... we "test" hypothesis, by looking for evidence to support it. then some questions are answered, which may lead to new questions.
+ For example, let's look at one of these comparisons... We know sauropods couldn't chew food, their skull show they had no chewing muscles. Lots of modern animals like birds and reptiles, also can't chew food, they need to swallow it whole. But modern animls have an interesting aid for digesting food. They swallow stone, stones are uesd to help grind up the food, before it's actually digested in the stomach. These stone are called gastroliths.
+ Gastroliths made food easily to digest, essentially smashing food up, just as we do when we chew. Over time, Gastroliths inside the animals are ground down and become smooth and rounded. Now sauropods fossils are commonly found with smoothed stones, for years, we thought these were gastroliths, they looked just like gastroliths, and were found in the area of the sauropods's stomachs.
+ Recently study measured the gastroliths in the modern animals, in ostriches, and study show that the ostriches need to ingest about 1% total body weight in gastroliths. But we've been able to determine that stones found with sauropods total much less proportionally less than a tenth 1% of their body weight.
+ So now, we're not quite sure what these sauropods were used for? It could be there were accidentally ingested as the sauropods foraged for food, that they served no real purpose. Other researchers speculate that sauropods ingested these stones as a source of some of the minerals they needed, such as calcium. So the original hypothesis that the stones found with sauropods were gastroliths, even though it hasn't been supported, has helped us to make new hypothesis which may eventually lead to the answer.