# 29-3
+ P: Today, I'd like to talk a bit about the relationship between the built world and sound, the design of buildings like concert halls or theaters. So what's the most important aspect in the design of such a building.
+ S: Acoustics?
+ P: Yes, now people have been concerned about how sound carries in **auditoriums** and theaters for at least 2000 years, but it wasn't until the beginning of the twentieth century that architectural acoustics became a scientific field. That was when the **physicist** Wallace Sabine started to do extensive studies on **reverberation**. Sabine wanted to find out why the audience couldn't understand the speakers at a **letcure** hall in Boston. He designed a series of studies on reverberation to figure it out. So what is reverberation? it's the persistence of sound in the room after the source has stopped making sound. You see, sound made in a room reflects off the walls, floor and celling, that's the reverberant sound. The time it takes for reverberant sound to die down is important for the acoustic quality of a room. Sabine recognized this, and  he came up with an **equation** to measure a room's reverberation time. So what happenes if the reverberation time is very long?
+ S: Wouldn't it be difficult to hear new sounds if you can still hear the old sounds?
+ P: Exactly. A long reverberation time may cause musical notes to drown one another out. On the other hand, if the reverberation time is very short, meaning the reverberations are absorbed very quickly, the rooms is called "dead". Performers would feel they have to struggle to fill the room with sound. We don't want that, in a concert hall or theater, we prefer a live room, where the sound has fullness. so we need to control the reverberation time. After all, we don't want the listeners or the performers to have to struggle, right? So what are some important considerations when we design a theater or concert hall.
+ S: The size of the place?
+ P: Absolutely, The larger the room, the longer the reverberation time. So we'll have to take into account what the room will be mainly used for since music requires more reverberation than speech. A room intended for music needs to be design differently from a room intended for drama. For music, we need a very large room, a concert hall, actually, I should say for full orchestras, because for a single instrument, say something like a piano **recital**, a room with a short reverberation time is better. So for a solo piano, a smaller room works well. Yes?
+ S: I read that concert hall designed for **symphony** orchestras has too much echo for jazz music.
+ P: That doesn't surprise me, most small jazz groups would need rooms with a shorter reverberation time. But besides the size of the room, another variable affecting reverberation is the shape of the room. let's say you designed a **rectangular**, box-like space with bare walls and celling. This would allow the sound to act like a ball in a **racquetball** court, you know, bouncing around and hitting some part of the walls and celling but missing many others. If that happen in a concert hall, audience members may hear some sounds, but not others. So what can be done to distribute the sound evenly in every direction? The answer is: avoid straight, parallel walls.
+ S: But I think I've seen photos of rectangular concert halls.
+ P: Right. Older conert halls from 1800s are generally rectangular, but they all have a lot of directions on the walls inside, lots of **ornamental** **plasterworks** like statues, which distribute sounds very efficiently, reflecting it in all different direcitons. And that brings me to another variable we need to consider, the acoustic characteristics of the building materials, as well as the walls and floor coverings. In fact, most objects you see in a concert hall or theater serve double duty. The **plush** chair absorb sound and soften reverberation. And beautiful crystal **chandeliers**? they are very good at diffusing sound. You see, everything must be planned down to the last detail in order to predict the acoustic performance of a room. That being said, there's something that can't be controlled by the architect. The audience has an effect on acoustics too, the heads of the people are good diffusers of sound, and architect try to account for this effect in the design, but they can't guarantee a full auditorium.