# 3-2

+ Now, we've been talking about the lose of animals habitat from housing developments, growing cities, small habitat losses. But today I wanna begin talking about what happenes when habitat is reduced across a large area. There are of course animals specices that require large area habitat and some migrate over a long distances. So what's impact of habitat loss on those animals, animals that need a large areas habitat? 
+ Well, I'll use the humming birds as an example. Now you know humming birds is amazingly small, but even though it's really tiny, it migrate over very long distances, travels up and down the western hemisphere, the America, back and forth between where it breeds in the summer, and the warmer climates where it spends the winter. So we'll say that whole area over which it migrate is its habitat because on this long-distance journey, it needs to come down to feed and sleep every so often, right?
+ Well, the humming birds beat its wings, get this, about 3 thousand times per minute. So you think, wow, it must need a lot of energy, a lot of food, right? Well, it does, it drinks a lot of nectar from flowers and feeds on some insects, but it's energy-efficient too. You can't say it isn't. I mean as it flies all the way across the Guld of Mexico, it uese up almost none of its body fat. But that doesn't mean it doesn't need to eat. 
+ So humming birds have to rely on planets in their natural habitat. And it goes without say, the oppsite is ture as well, plants depends on humming birds too. There are serveral flowers that can be only be pollinated by the humming birds. Without its stopping to feed and spreading pollen from flower and flower, these plants would cease to exist.
+ But problem, as natural habitat along these migration routes is developled by humans for housing, or argiculture, or cleared for raising cattle for instance, there is less food aviailable for migrating humming birds. Their nesting sites are affected too, the same by the same sorts of activities. And all these activies posed a real threat to the humming bird population.
+ So to help them survive, we need to perserve their habitats. And one of the concrete ways people have been doing this by cleaning up polluted habitat areas and then replanting flowers, replanting native flowers, that humming birds feed on. 
+ Promoting ecological tourism is an another way to help save their habitat. As the number of visitors eco-tourists who come to humming birds habitat to watch the birds, the more number of visitors grows, the more local businesses profit. So ecological tourists can bring financial rewards, all the more reason to value this beautiful little creatutre in their habitat, right?
+ But to understand more about how to protect and support humming birds the best we can, we've got to learn more about their breeding, nesting site, migration route, and also about natural habitat we find there. That should help us determine how to prevent further decline in the population.
+ A good research method, a good way to learn more is by running a banding study. Banding the birds allows us to track them over the time, it's a practice that's been used by reseachers for years. In fact, most of what we've known about the humming birds comes from banding studies, where we capture a humming bird, and make sure all the information about it, like its weight, age, and length, are all recorded, put into internation information database. And then we place an extremely lighweight band on one of its legs, what looks like a leg, although technically it's considered part of the bird's foot. Anyway, this band are perfectly safe, and some humming bird have worn them for years with no evidences of any problems. The band is labeled with a tracking number, and there is phone number on the band for people to call for free, to report a banded bird they've found or recaptured.
+ So when a banded bird is captured and reported, we learned about its migration route, its growth, and how long it has been alive, its life span. One we captured bird had been almost 12 years earlier, she is one oldest humming birds on record. Another interesting thing we've learned is that humming birds, they no longer use a certain route. They travel by a different route to reach their destination. And findings like these have been of interest to biologists and environmental scientists in the number of countries who are trying to understand the complexities of how changes in habitat affect the species in it, species like the humming birds.