# 3-6

+ Now the astonomy didn't really bloom, into the science it is today, until the development of spectroscopy. Spectroscopy is bascially the study of the spectra and spectral lines of light, and specially for us, the light from stars. It makes it possible to analyze the light emitted from stars. When you analyze this light, you will figure out their distance from the Earth, and identify what they are made of, determine their chemical composition.
+ Before we get into that, though it probably a good thing to get back up a bit. You all know how when you take a crystal prism and pass a beam of sunlight through it, you get spectrum which looks like a continuous band rainbow colors. The light we'll see with our human eyes as a rainbow color falls in the range of what's called visible light. And visible light spectroscopy is probably the most important kind of spectroscopy. And anyone wanna take a stab at the scientific term for visible light, and I'm sure all of you know this because you did all reading for today.
+ Opticial radiation? but I thought being exposed to radiation is dangerous.
+ Yes, and no, if you talk about the radiation like the in the element uranium, yean, that's dangerous, but radition as a general term actually refers to anything that spread away from its source, so opticial radiation is just visble light energy spreading out.
+ Ok, so we've got a spectrum of a beam of sunlight and it looks like the colors bleed into each other, there are no interruptions, just a band flowing from violet to green, to yellow, you get an idea. Well, what happenes if the sunlight spectrum is magnified? Maybe you'll do the reading? Well, here's what you've see: I want to know that this spectrum is interrupted by dark lines, called spectral lines. If you really magnified this spectrum of the sunlight, you could identify more than a hundred of them. Then may look kinda of randomly placed, but they actully form many disticnt patterns. And if you were looking at the spectrum of some other star, the colors would be the same, but the spectral lines would break it at different places, making different patterns. Each patterns stands for a distinct chemical element, and so different stes or patterns of the spectral lines mean that the star has a different chemical composition.
+ So how do we know which spectral patterns match up with which elements?
+ A kind of spectroscopy library of element was complied using flame tests. A known element, say a piece of iron for example, is heated in a pure gas flame, the iron eventually heats to the point that it radiates light. This light is passed through a prism, which breaks it up into a spectrum, and a unique pattern, kind of like a chemical fingerprint spectral lines for that element appears. This process was repeated over and over again for many different elements. So we can figure out the chemical makeup of another star by comparing the spectral pattern it has to the pattern of the element in the library.
+ Oh, an interesting story about how one of element was discovered through spectroscopy. There was a pretty extensive library of spectral lines patterns of elements even by 1860. A British astronomer was analyzing a spectrograph of sunlight and he noticed a particular pattern of spectral lines that didn't match anything in the library. So he put two and two together and decide there was an element in the Sun that hadn't been discovered here on the Earth yet. Any guesses about what that element? It's actually turned out to be pretty common, and I'm sure all of you know it. Ok, let's try something else. Any of you happen to be familiar with the Greek word for Sun by chance?
+ Something like helios or something like that. Oh, it must be Helium. So you're saying that helium was discovered on the Sun first. Yes, and that's a good example of how important the spectroscopy is in anstronomy.