# 30-1

+ S: This is the administrative office, right?
+ E: How can I help you?
+ S: Well, I'm stopping by to reverse a place for my school club meeting work, Pretty much on a regular basis. Idealy, our perference would be to have a own office.
+ E: Well, while we are out of private office, but we do have some semiprivate options still available.
+ S: What do you mean?
+ E: Well, it's a setup where you'll have a larger work space shared by two other clubs. In other words, each club will have its own work area within that one room.
+ S: Oh, are there any divider walls or anything?
+ E: Oh, yes, there will be a couple of dividers, so there is some privacy.
+ S: We'll work with that then, I wouldn't wanna be without an office.
+ E: Ok, here are the two forms you have to fill out, why don't you do it now while I set that up through our computer system?
+ S: Ok.
+ E: So what's your club's name, and last name of the club president?
+ S: Oh, it's the photophgraphy club. And it's Williams, that's me, John Williams.
+ E: That's not pulling up anything on my screen. Let me try something else. How about your faculty adviser's name?
+ S: Sarah Baker, she's in the art deparment.
+ E: No, strange, you know your club's just showing up in my online records. Is this an established club.
+ S: No, actually, it's a brand new one.
+ E: Have you completed the registration process?
+ S: Yeah, last week, that was my very first step.
+ E: Right, well for my purpose, a club definitely has to be registered before I can proceed further. At the moment however, it appear that no record of your club's registration.
+ S: Really, I thought everything finalized last week.
+ E: Well, it is surpring. Usually there's a 24-hour turnaround in our computer database. So then do you have the registration approval letter from the review committee? That will give me the verification I need.
+ S: Oh, yes, I do, I mean.... I don't have it with me, but I can get it from my dorm room, bring it back with, and submit it with those forms you need from me.
+ E: Great, that'll work. And just so you're aware, there're lots of benefits to being registered.
+ S: Oh, yeah, I think university will give us permission to set up a Web site right? I wanna get students sharing their ideas on the Web site, you know, establish a photography blog.
+ E: Yes, you'll be able to do that. And actually there's more. You'll be allowed the use of audio-visual equipment at no cost. You'll receive a club mailbox, and the club e-mail address. You'll be allowed to post your flyers and posters around the campus for publicity, and you could be eligible for funding for club events.
+ S: Oh, we're definitely interested in hiring a professional speaker at one of our campus events at some point in the semester. And speakers almost charge a fee, So, I'll definitely follow on that.