# 33-1

+ S: Hi, I'm a little lost, Is this the housing maintenance office?
+ E: You found it, how can I help you?
+ S: Oh, good, I have a quick question: are we allowed to keep electric heaters in our rooms?
+ E: Actually, you are not. What's going on? Your room cold?
+ S: It's freezing in my room. I think the heat went out or something.
+ E: Are you sure it's out? Maybe it just got turned down too far?
+ S: Oh, no. I tried to adjusting the heat control, but it doesn't make any difference. It's so cold in my bedroom I can't sleep at night. I've actually been sleeping on the sofa in the front room. The heat still work there. Actually we get hot air in all the bedrooms, except ours.
+ E: Wow, Do you have a roommate?
+ S: Yeah, but she said she isn't bothered by the cold. But on the sofa, I'm kept up by the noise out in the hall, the dorms can sometimes ger pretty noisy. So what can be done about it.
+ E: Well, ok, there's a couple of things we can do. I can have a custodian take a look at it and see if he can do something. 
+ S: Actually I asked the custodian yesterday to take a look, but he said he counldn't find anything wrong. He said that some of the other rooms have lost heat also, and that if we'd come here you guys would fix it.
+ E: Oh, you did? That's wired because I would have... The custodians themselves usually supposed to report any problems right away. Ok, in that case, then what you need to do is, here, fill out this form.
+ S: I have to fill out a form?
+ E: Yeah, but at least that'll put your heater problem in a work order for the maintenance crew and they'll get to you as soon as possible. Just you know, because it's not winter yet, and it's not cold as it could be... it may take a few days for a maintenance crew to get to you.
+ S: A few days? I can't even sleep in my own room. Can't we just get an electric heater?
+ E: I'm sorry, but students just aren't allowed! Ok, I can see that this is a problem, and not just with your room. So if you can get the form back to me this afternoon, I'll to get a maintenance crew to look at your problem by tomorrow. How's that?
+ S: Oh, that's be great, seriously. I have to take off now, but when I fill this form out, I give it to you, right?
+ E: Right, and if I'm not here, just put it in my box and I'll get it.