# 33-5

+ Ways in which animals adapt to their environment are often quite ingenious, actually. And an example of this, let me tell you about a fish, a group of fish known as the notothenioids.
+ There's over 90 known species of notothenioids and they inhabit both shallow and very deep waters, mostly around Antarctica. Many are fairly small, though the largest speices can weigh up to 150 kilograms. Notothenioids can be identified by their large eyes, which are covered by a thick, insulating layer of clear tissue. This tissue protects their eyes from freezing. Remember, the freezing point of ocean water, saltwater, is lower than for freshwater, negative 1.9 degrees Celsius, so it can get a lot of colder for fish in an ocean say, than in a river or lake.
+ So this means that the ocean waters around Antarctica are cold enough to freeze most types of fish. But notothenioids don't freeze, in fact, they thrive. They account for some 95 precent of all fish in the Southern Ocean, the ocean that surrounds Antarctica.
+ So How unusual is that, to have a single family of fish dominating an entire Ocean. I mean, think of, say, tropical or temperate marine environment, which have incredibly diverse fish populations. Coral reefs, for example, support over 4000 types of fish, along with sponge, crustaceans, and many other organisms.
+ So exactly when and how did the notothenioids come to dominate the Southern Ocean? Well, around 30 millions years ago, the waters around Antarctica were a lot warmer than they are today. At that time, Antarctica was connected to Southern American, which means the warm air from north, could flow southward and heat up the Antarctica waters. Because the waters around Antarctica then was relatively warmer, it supported many types of fish, and we know that this from fossil evidence. But the 90 or so species of notothenioids that exist didn't exist at all back then... In fact only one ancestral notothenioids species existed.
+ But somewhere between five million and fourteen million years ago, two major changes took places. First, what we call a change mutation, a tiny genetic change, occurred in that one nototheniods species. Its DNA allowed for the production of a species protein, a protein that prevents the fish from freezing. The way this, this antifreeze protein, works is: it binds to any ice crystals that from inside the fish. This binding action prevents the ice crystal from growing large, and this is what prevents nototheniods from freezing.
+ Now at that time, the waters the nototheniods inhabited were still not freezing cold. So the protein didn't really make a difference, as far as the fish's survival. But this would change, because the same period of geologic time, there was a shift in the Earth's continental plates, continental drift caused Antarctica to move apart from the landmass of South America and to drift into the southern polar region. This results in a powerful water current encircling Antarctica, which prevent the Antartica waters from mixing with warm water, so the Southern Ocean-isolated from that warm airflow from north-cooled down drastically, to the kinds of subfreezing temperature we associate with it today.
+ Now, most of fish speices couldn't survive in this frigid environment, and they become extinct. But that one nototheniods species with its uniqe ability to produce that antifreeze protein, thrived. it had virtually the entire Southern Ocean to itself, so there was little or no competition for food or space. You might think of it as a kind of an ecological vacuum, and the nototheniods exploited it fully. This species migrated into different habitats throughout the Southern Ocean, and its population increased dramatically, with various subpopulations migrating into different parts of the ocean.
+ Over times, these subpopulations in all those different habitats, they developed very different physical traits, they adpated to survive in their particular ecological niche, their position within a particular ecosystem. We call this type of species diversification within a species adaptive radiation. And what adaptive radiation is, is a very evolutionary process by which a parent species rapidly undergoes changes resulting in various new speices, in order to fill mutiple ecological niches. So in the case of the nototheniods, that single species started colonizing empty habitats to such an extent that it evolved into a broad range of new speices, the 90 or so nototheniods species that we have today. So let me switch to adaptive with regard to another species that's also been very successful...