# 35-3
+ One of the frustrating things about archaeology especially for beginning students is that the theory are constantly evolving. The theory that has been accepeted for many years may suddently be called into question.
+ But why would that happen?
+ There are probably number reasons. Eariler finds are always beeing re-exaimed in the context of newer finds. Or it may just be that someone look at the evidence in a different way, has a different ideas what it suggests.
+ Take the theory about the earliest permanent settlements. They were found in the area to the east of the Mediterranean Sea, called the Levant, and people who lived there were the Natufians. For quiet some time, it's been widely accepted that about 50000 years ago, then the Natufians developed a sedentary lifestyle. Can someone reminder us what that means?
+ It means that they stopped being **nomadic**, that they began staying in one area year-around instead of the moving around all the time.
+ Right, and we think there was a aboundance of edible plants and animals in the area of that time that made this shift away from a nomadic lifestyle possible. Keeping in mind, that the Natufians were hunter-gatheres. So in spite of other changes, they were always a preagricultural society. Anyway, after beeing sendentary for around 2000 years, something happened that forced the Natufians to change their lifestyle. The general consensus is that there was a period of climatic cooling which has a negative effect on a availability of food. And this food shortage likely caused the Natufians to revert to a namadic style. Then around 11500 years ago, the climate warmed agin, food became abundant, and the people in that area become sedentary agin.
+ Now, no one is contesting that these people probably descendents of the Natufians, were indeed sedentary by 11500 years ago. The evidence is quite strong. Archaeologists have uncovered the numberous circular strutures, dating from that period that appear to have been used to store grain. We think this for a counple reasons. First, the remains of barley husks have been found inside them. Barley was the main type that grew in this area.
+ And secondly, the floors on these strctures were elevated. This design would have been consistent with the need to keep the barley dry and safe from rodents, so that make sense. And there are lots of these structures in the settlements, in one settlement that was only partially excavated, archeaologists have already found four of these structures.
+ So it's the ealier a part, that the Natufains were sedentary 15000 years ago that's changed?
+ There's a evidence, but some archaeologists have questioned the criteria used to indentify permanent settlements. See, circular structures have also been found in the early Natufains settlements. So archaeologists believe these were also food-storage structures, base on their physically similarity to the structures in later settlements and they would indicate that the Natufains were sedentary 15000 years ago.
+ But now there are doubts about the use of these earlier structures. researchers point to the lack of the grain remants in these earlier structures. In fact, things other than grain have been found in them. So at the very least, they say, these structures probably had mutilple purposes. And another problem they point to is that the most early settlements have only one of these so-called storage structures. But do you think one structure would be enough to hold a surplus for an entire settlement.
+ Whatever these structures were used for, couldn't they just have built them at a place they came back to regularly? Maybe to store things for the next visit.
+ Exactly, so-called base camps where the Natufains didn't stay all-year around. But artifacts that were found at a number of Natufian sites seemed to present evidence of a sedentary way of life. Large, heavy mortars, the sort of thing that would have been used for grinding grain. Such heavy equipment could indicate that Natufians would have stayed permanently in one place since the work involved in moving an item like this around constantly would have been substantial. But these evidences of sedentism has also been called into question because the materials used to make the stone mortars did originally come from quite a distance. And if the Natufians could move materials over great distances.