# 37-1
+ T: Well, Matthew, good to see you. How can I help you.
+ S: Did you happen to read last weekend's Arts section of the newpaper?
+ T: Oh, I did, why?
+ S: You remember the article about the exhibition of ancient featherwork pieces from Peru? I'm thinking of doing my research paper on this topic, if it's OK with you, of course. I've done some additional reading about ancient Peruvian cultures, how they used brightly colored feathers to decorate clothes and ceremonial objects. From the picture I've seen, they're beautiful works of art.
+ T: They sure are. I saw the exhibition a few day ago. But is that how you'd approach Peruvian featherwork in your paper? As an art form? Remember, you need to take an anthropological angel, look at this in a way that tells us something about the people who made this featherwork and the societies they lived in.
+ S: Well, Absolutely. I read that most of the really colorful feathers came from rainfalls, and societies who used them lived on the coast on the other side of the Andes mountains, so the feathers had to be carried over the Andes. No wonder featherwork was symbol of high status in the ancient Peruvian societies.
+ T: That's definitely a long, dangerous trip to make on foot. I do researh down in Peru, and I've made that trip, but the easy way, I've flown and driven.
+ S: I don't know you did research in Peru. Maybe, do you think you'd be able to help me with this paper?
+ T: I'll be happy to help if I can, but Peruvian featherwork isn't my area of expertise. You know very few peices of featherwork survive because feather decay so quickly. Not many people have had a chance to study them up close. There's a handful of experts out there who have, and I could try to contact some of them, but I think your best bet is to keep reading and finding more books and articles. And of course, you can use information you got at the exhibition as source material too. You have been to the exhibiton, haven't you?
+ S: Actually, not yet.
+ T: Well, it would be a good idea if you went, don't you think? It's good that you've done some background reading, but it will make more sense when you actually see the featherwork. There's a lot of information available there from booklets, tour guides, and you could even ask for to meet with the curator and ask for her insights.