# 37-2

+ We all know soil, it's important to plant growth, right? And we know that there are different types of soil in different places, and that some soil are more **fertile** that others. But what is the soil, and how is it formed. we are going to go into this in some depth, for now, let's just lay down the basics. Soils are composed two kinds of materials: inorganic material, basically, small pieces of rock, and organic material, which is animal and plant matter. Ok, So what do you think? If I mix bits of rocks with composted vegetables, will I get soil? The answer is no, because the formation of soil is a dynamics process. It involves not only the initial the inputs, the raw materials, but also the transfermation of those materials and the movement of some materials and the loss of others.
+ So the input are bits of rock and organic matter. Now the bits of the rock the inorganic input to soil, they come from the breakdown of rock on Earth's surface through the process called weathering. 
+ Weathering can be either physical or chemical. Phyical weathering, that's when exposure to the elements over time causes a rock to break up to and eventually disintegrate. If you think the sand particles in soil, those are the results of physical weathering and they have the same chemcial composition as the original rock. Now chemical weathering, that's the chemical breakup of the rocks. It differs from physical weathering, in that chemical properties of the mineral are actually changed. The clay minerals you find in soil are the results of chemical weathering. Clay minerals are called secondary mineral, because their compostion has been altered.
+ Ok, we have weathered rock which needs to be combined with organic matter. So what does the organic input consisit of? It's the remians of the plants and animals, but mostly plants. Now, just as rocks are break down by the weathering, the animals and plants residues are breaks down too. They're reduced to simple chemicals by microorganisms in a process called mineralization. and just as the some rocks are more resisitant than others to weathering, the compounds found in the soils organic input resist mineralization at different rate. The compound cellulose is the major constitute of most plant tissue, it mineralizes relatively quickly. But there are woody substance in the certain plants that strengthen the cell walls. They are found in smaller concentration and their mineraliztion can take several years.
+ Weathering and mineralization transform the inorganic and organic inputs in a number of ways. And it's partly from these transformations that soil gets its unique properties. How does it work? Takes the darks brown color of soil. After microorganisms has broken down the cellulose, we are left with two things: the microbes' waste and the more resistant plant material that the microorganism can't break down easily. These materials utimately get transformed into a new material called humus.
+ And when the humus combined with a clay minerals of soil, that's what gives the soil its dark brown color. So now, if we've got clay and humus, these transformed materials, and we mix them together, we've got something very colse to soil. But the soil isn't static, and there are still other processes that go into the formation of soil, the movement and loss of materials.
+ The soil in any location isn't a uniform mixture, its composition varies with depth. You see, mineral and organic materials move through soil vertically, some materials move more easily than others. Water carries more mobile materials from the upper level of the soil to the lower levels. So the upper levels of the soil eventually get depleted these materials, while the lower level get enriched with them. And that creates distinct layers of soil, as far down as the rock underlying the soil. And the materials that dissolve easily in water can get lost completely if the water carries them horizontally out of the soil and into rivers. Now, of course, new mineral and organic materials would be deposited at the surface and become incorporated into soil, but you see how the processes the movement and lost contribut to the formation of soil.