# 40-1
+ T: Thanks for seeing me, Professor Jaskson.
+ S: Sure, Tom. what can I do for you.
+ T: I'm gonna do my term project on service design, What you see as a customer, the physical layout of the building, the parking lot. And I thought I'd focus on various kinds of eateries...restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, so I'd also analyze where you order your food, where you eat, and so on.
+ T: Well, I thought you were going to come up with a hypothetical business plan for an amusement park? Isn't that what you e-mailed me last week? I couldn't sworn... oh, I'm thinking of a Tom from another class, Tom Benson. Sorry, sorry
+ S: No problem, I did e-mail you my idea too, though.
+ T: That's right, I remember now. Resturants, yeah.
+ S: So, here is my question, I read something about service standard that kinda confused me. What's the difference between service design and service standard?
+ T: Service standard refers to what a company...employees are ideally supported to do in order for everything to operate smoothly. The protocols to be followed.
+ S: Oh, OK
+ T: So backing up, Service design is..., think of the cafeteria here on campus. There are several food counters, Right? All with big, clear signs to help you to find what you're looking for: soups, salads, desserts. So you know exactly where to go to get what you need. And when you're finished picking up your food, where do you go.
+ S: To the cash registers.
+ T: And where are they?
+ S: Right before you get to the seating area.
+ T: Exactly, A place that you would logically move to next.
+ S: You know, not every place is like that. This past weenkend was my friend's birthday, and I went to a bakery in town, to pick up a cake for her party. And the layout of the place was wired, people were all in each other's way, standing in the wrong lines to pay, to place orders. And another thing, I heard this bakery makes really good apple pie, so I want to buy a slice of it, too.
+ T: Ok.
+ S: There was a little label that said "apple pie", where it's supposed to be, but there wasn't any left.
+ T: And that's what's called a service gap. Maybe there wasn't enough training for the emplyees or maybe they just ran out of pie that day. But something's wrong with process and service standard wasn't being met.
+ S: Ok, I think I get it. Anyway, since part of the requirements for the term project is to visit actual place of the business, did you think I could use our cafeteria? They seem to have a lot of the things I'm looking for.
+ T: Well, campus business like the cafeteria or bookstore don't quite follow the kinds of service models we're studying in class, you should go to some other local establishment, I'd say.
+ S: I see.
+ T: But just call the manager ahead of time so they aren't surprised.