# 40-3

+ Next I want to talk about the collapse of North American cod population. Let's look at Cape Cod, in the northeastren Unisted State.
+ The area named Cape Cod, because there are so many Cope fish in the waters just off its shores, so many that the first Europeans who fished there on 17th century reported it was better than the Newfoundland, Canada. At the time, Newfoundland's cold fishery was so rich that peopel said it was possible to lower a bucket in the water, pull it out, and it'll be full of cod. But Cop Cod  was even better. So the fishery industry there did great until in the 1940s, there were simply too many fishing vessels, sophisticated vessels, competing fewer and fewer fish.
+ In the 1940s, there were still about 400 million pounds of fish caught at Cape Cod every year. Just fifty years later, though, by the 1990s, commerical cape fish there had became unprofitable, the annual catch had gone down to about 5% of its 1940s level.
+ And here's what's so fascinating, as more and more fishing vessels and better and better fishing technology were competing for cod, this competition was casuing changes to the biology of the fish, and these changes were making it more and more diffcult for the cod population to sustain itself.
+ Changes to the biology of the fish?
+ Well, if a cod fish could produce earlier than usual, it'd have a better chance of passing on its genes to the next generation before being caught, right? And sure enough, by biologists noticed that around Code Cod, the cod were beginning to mature at an earlier age than normal. Prioir to population collapse, cod usually took about 8 to 10 years to fully mature to start to produce, and they lived around 40 years total. So cod had about 30 years of active reproductive life. But now cod was beginning to reproduce at a younger age, at 3 to 4 years old. And they were living shorter life, because they were being caught, so they had fewer year within which to reproduce.
+ Additionally, even though some fish in the population were maturing at an eariler age, none was actually growing faster. No cod has a way of speeding up of its rate of growth, so the younger reproductive age actually meant that the smaller fish were reproducing. And when you are a small cod reproducing, your reproduce fewer eggs than a larger cod, the smaller cod simply don't have the body mass to produce as many as eggs. The overfishing pressure on the cod popluation was pushing the cod into the evolution corner, they were having a harder and harder time surviving.
+ But what can be done to prevent scenarios like this? I mean obviously we need a better way to manage environmental resources.
+ Well, what your gay suggests?
+ Maybe **privatize** resources. A private owner would want to manage the resource efficiently and stustainable way.
+ Ok, the problem is privatization doesn't necessarily result in better management of an environmental resource. Any ideas why it wouldn't?
+ Well, individual owner might not properly assess the limits of the resource, so they could be just as prone to over the exploiting that resources as group, where lots of people have assess to it.
+ Yes, well, like in the 1970s, when it was already clear that the North American Cod population was declining dramatically. The US and Canada declared a 200-miles exclusive economic zone in the waters around Cape Cod. By declaring an exclusive economic zone, you see, these two countries were trying to extend their territorial waters. Bacially, it was as if they were saying, "we are the privite owners, we own these waters, so we own the right to the fish in them too". Essentially, the two countries told fishing vessels **trawlers** from all other nations to get out of the cod-fishing area. You'd think that'd be good news for the cod because there'd be less fishing. However, the US and Canada wanted to expel foreign trawlers only in order to increase the numbers of their own fishing **fleets**. The total number of fishing trawlers actually increased. 
+ Another possible solution: pass laws that regulate use of the resource. but for regulation to be effietive, **penealties** for breaking laws have to be large enough to **deter** violators.