# 41-4

+ E: Hi, can I help you?
+ S: Yes, I'd like to get a help with payment for my classes, some sort of financial aid. The problem is I don't know much about it, so I don't really know where to begin, I saw this poster about work-study programs, can you tell me something about that?
+ E: Well, I think you're talking about the government-sponsored work-study program. It works like this. You work on campus and get paid an hourly wage, just like a regular job. However, instead of getting a paycheck the money goes directly to your bill for your courses. But almost all work-study jobs pay minimum wage, which is usually pretty low. The truth is you might do better getting a job of campus, since you can do whatever you want with the money, like paying your rent or buying textbooks.
+ S: Thanks, that's very useful, so how do I find out what's out there?
+ E: Let me show you our catalog of various programs, as well as scholarships offered here. That's your best bet really, if you can find a good scholarship, because you don't have to pay the money back, you might qualify if your grades are good enough, or if you have the right background...
+ S: Yeah, that sounds like something I should try for?
+ E: Now, this is my desk copy of the catalog, but I can give you your own copy, if you want. Be sure to visit you university library too, There's a whole section on financial aid, including application forms.
+ S: Why isn't all in the information listed in the catalog? It'd be so much eaiser.
+ E: Oh, if we did that, the catalog would be too heavy to pich up. Civic clubs, foundations-organizations from all over the country offer scholarships or other financial assiatance to college students. And all kinds of companies have programs to help their employees' children go to college. If either of your parents works for a large corporation, have them check to see if their companies do that.
+ S: Ok, good idea. My dad works for a big accounting firm, and he's a member of a professional accounting organization, do you think they'd offer financial aid?
+ E: Yes, That's fairly common. Especially if you were planning to go into accouting, what are you starting, what do you plan to do after you graduate?
+ S: I wanna become to a dentist, I'm enrolled in the pre-med program for dentistry.
+ E: Ok, so I'd suggest looking in the library for information on organization that have to do with dentistry. Any number of them might offer scholarships to students planning to join their profession.
+ S: I'll definitely investigate that one.
+ E: Great, but be sure to talk one of our librairians, too. They get the same question over and over, so they can save you a great deal of time.