# 42-2

+ P: I'm sure you've all been to a museum where you've seen beautiful white **marble** status sculpted by the Greek and Romans, or at least that you've seen the photos of such statues, right? We have come to expect these **classical** Greek and Roman statues to be **monochrome**, just one color, white skin, white hair, white eyes, white everything, the natural color of the marble they're carved from.
+ Now the idea of **plain**, white sculpture goes back to fifteen century Europe, when Renaissance artists rediscovered ancient Greek and Roman culture. They were inspired by the sculptures that appeared monochrome, so they created white marble statues. The impact of these Renassiance statues, such as Michelangelo's David, gave rise to new standards for sculpture, standards that emphasized from rather than color.
+ But what if many of those ancient statues were orginially **polychrome**, colored from head to toe. Early in the nineteenth century, **archaeologists** found traces of paint on ancient sculptures. And since then, classical artists **historians** have begun to realize that Greek and Roman marble sculptures were originally colored. Even if an ancient marble statue doesn't have any visible traces of paint, that doesn't mean it was originally monochrome. In many cases, the pigment would have simply **deteriorated**, ancient artists used mineral-based paints organic binding media that would've disintegrated on its own over time. In other cases, the pigment may have been weathered away while exposed to the elements, or someone may have **rigorously** cleaned the statues and unknowingly removed the last traces of pigment.
+ So the fact is we do have evidence of polychrome sculpture from Greece and Rome from seventh century B.C.E all the way through at least the third or fourth century C.E. It's now generally accepted the most -- maybe even all -- marble sculptures from that time period received some kind of surface treatment like the application of pigment, colored stones or **metals** that would've modified their color.
+ So do we **interpret** a statue differently if we know it had originally been polychrome? I feel strong when it comes to this. Marble sculptures that had been colored has another layer of meaning that was meant to affect the viewer. As art **historians**, we must try to interpret the intentions of the artists, what were the artists trying to achieve? Certain features of the sculpture were highlight through color, were made to stand out. In other words, they caused the viewer to focus on certain features. And certain colors represented certain things to ancient artists and cultures: a color might symbolize **heroism**, **divinity**, or youth.
+ One example to consider is the statue of the Roman **Emperor** **Augustus**.
+ This particular statue of Augustus that I'm referring to was discovered just outside of Rome in 1863, and was in **terrific** condition. It's about two meters tall, just large than life-size. It was made from an expensive, high-quality type of marble, and was obviously carved by an expert.
+ Now, it still had visible traces of color and hair, eyes and its clothing and **armor**. The paints have been very carefully studied, and it truns out that the colors weren't just from any pigments, they were from expensive pigments. The use of these pigments showed the importnance of the Augustus and that he should be honored.
+ And let's consider the extensive traces of a red pigment that were found on the statue's **cloak**. The cloak is a special **garment** that was traditional worn by an emperor on the **battlefield**, and in the real life was a red color which to the Romans, **signified** in the emperor's authority, **military** and political authority. 
+ Ok, I won't point out any further details about the colors on the Augustus statue, because you can already begin to see there was cultural importance associated with the colors, symbolism which should help us understand the statue better.
+ There are many many more sculptures that have traces of pigments left on them. and we have the **technology** these days to be able to carry out effective studies of these pigments. There are a lot of work to be done, but it needs to be done fast. Like I said before, these pigments deteriorate rapidly. So we really need to do research before the traces are gone, so that we can increase our understanding of ancient polychrome sculptures and the cultures which created them. 