# 43-2
+ It's autumn, and as you know in the most part of the United State, the leaves on the trees are changing color from green to yellow, orange, and lots of other colors. So this will be a great time to talk about how and why some of these leaves turn one color in particular and that's bright red. 
+ Well, before we discuss why leaves turn red, first let's, look, I know this is very old material. But just to play it safe, let's first go over why leaves are ususally green. It's **chlorophyll**, right? Leaves get their green color from chlorophyll, the chemical that's responsible for **photosynthesis**. 
+ The chlorophyll in the leaves collects energy from the Sun, in the form of sunlight and it converts this energy into sugar, which is food for the plant. It's chlorophyll that makes the leaves green most of the time. Now, the **classic** **explanation** for why leaves change color is this, in autumn, the leaves start preparing for the winter and stop **synthesizing** new chlorophyll. 
+ Since chlorophyll is sensitive to sunlight and to cold **temperatures**, both of which you get in autumn, the existing chlorophyll in the leaves breaks down. And since it's not been replaced by the new chrolophyll, the green color of the leaves gradually fades away. As this happens, the other pigments present in the leaf become visible. According to the classic theory, this is true for the red pigment as well, it was there in the leaf all along, but it was **hidden** by the green chlorophyll. Ok, so that's the classic explanation, and it's partially right. Why do I say partially? well, it's probably true for pigments like yellow or orange, but it doesn't seem to hold for the red pigment. Let's back up a bit. Just what produces this red color in leaves? it's a red pigment, called **anthocyanin**. 
+ Here's where the classic explanation doesn't seem to apply to red. What's interesting is that during the summer, there was very little if any anthocyanin in the leaves, but in the weeks before a tree is about to drop its leaves, the production of anthocyanins increases significantly. In other words, unlike those other pigments, anthocyanin are not just unmasked by the breakdown of the chlorophyll in the autumn, they're actually created at that time. 
+ So that raises a question, why would a tree produce more anthocyanin just before dropping its leaves? Why does the tree spend so much of its resources doing these just before the leaves fall off? On the surface, this doesn't make sense, it'd be like spending money to, I don't know, to have a old car repainted when you know the car's not going to last more than a couple of months. All this extra anthocyanin in the autumn seems like a **waste**. But remember, nature is very **economical** with its resources, so that means anthocyanin must be serving some function that is important for the tree.
+ Today there are some theories about what that function might be, one of them involves **predatory** insects, and another involves fungi. You know, the more I read about those theories and the related the research, it always created more questions for me than answers. So I was really glad to learn about a totally different theory, a new one, it seemed to come with research and data that give a full explanation. So here it is, remember I said the chlorophyll breaks down, in autumn, a whole lot of other chemical **constituents** of the leaf break down as well. I don't mean they're totally destoryed, because actually they break down into other, different chemicals that tree can reabsorb from the leaves and reuse later. Now, this **reabsorption** process is very important for the tree and here is the key, it is sensitive to light, meaning that too much exposure to sunlight can interfer with this process.
+ So where does anthoyanin fit in here? Well, anthoyanin is more stable than chlorophyll, it's not harmed as easily by the sun or the cold, so it's still working long after the chlorophyll breaks down. But what does it do? The theory is that anthoyanin **protects** the reabsorption process from the sunlight. For example, if you look closely at a red leaf on a tree, you'll notice that the most of the red pigment is on the uppder side of leaf, the side facing the sun. This new theory suggests that what the anthoyanin is doing there on the top is **shielding** the rest of the leaf from the sunlight, and the more importantly, allowing those important chemicals to be reabsorped by the tree.