# 43-4

+ S: Hi, professor Davis. Sorry I missed calss yesterday. I was just getting over a cold.
+ P: That's all right, Andrew. Feeling better now?
+ S: Oh, yeah, fine. I had a question now, for the midterm, how much do we need to know like, about the different acting styles. Since the last few chapters have been on writing our own material, scripts and stuff, will the exam be about that or about stuff earlier chapters? Like...
+ P: Oh, Andrew, before I forgot, I will get to your question, but now don't leave without taking the tickets for tomorrw's fields trip. I have a last-minute meeting, so I can't make it after all. But since you helped organize the trip, I'll let you hand out the tickets...I've got you everything you need right here.
+ S: Sure, no preblem.
+ P: And you don't need directions to the theater, you've been there before, right?
+ S: Yeah.
+ P: Good, also, please remind everyone about reception afterward, it'll be an opportunity to ask Alan about hit acting in the play, which we can discuss in class next week.
+ S: Ok, I'll tell them. it's really something! I mean I know our acting professors must be in plays all the time, but it isn't everyday you get to see one right here in town.
+ P: Oh, you might be surprised. There's a calendar on the main bulletin board listing all the local production that faculty are involved in.
+ S: Well, it seems like Professor Altman's a really popular actor. I guess read his bio in the local paper. I know the critics always praise him, but I had no idea he was such a commerical success too. And it said he just won an award last year, playwriting, wasn't it?
+ P: Well, there's a general playwriting category, but actually, his award was for script adaptation, he adapted a novel into a play.
+ S: Script adaptation?
+ P: Oh, it's very specialized skill, writing a play based on some other written work, novels, short stories. Now we've been studying original plays, which are pretty much based on the writer's imagination. But think about adapting a script.
+ S: Yeah, seems like it might be easier, like to start with something that's already written.
+ P: Well, actually, think about it. Transferring that material to a whole different genre. From narration to live dialogue. Imagination is a part of it, sure, but it also requires a lot technical knowledge, about theater production, acting, and so on. So Professor Altman, for example, he took a novel and made it into play, dealing with all the different conventions that plays have, you know like limitations of scence changes...and it'd be good thing to ask him about at the reception tomorrow.
+ S: Yeah, sounds like an interesting topic. 
+ P: Oh, And before I forgot. The packet with the tickets has a list of the students' address. Since the van is picking you up first, you can direct the driver to the other students' dorms.
+ S: Sure, that's was the plan.
+ P: Ok, good. Now about the midterm.