# 45-2
+ As I was saying, The Renaissance period which started in the 1400s in Europe - The Renaissance was still a pretty **religious** period. And that's reflected in the artwork of that time. But artists was starting to experiment with a more secular point view as well, a tendency to also use the natural world as the subject matter for their art.
+ And they were different ways that natural themes were explored. For instance, many artists would paint **portraits**, while others, although this was more common in northern Europe, would make landscape the subjects of their works. But today I'd like to consider an influential Itanlian Renaissance artists, Leon Battista Alberti, who took a slightly different approach. 
+ Leon Battista Alberti was a painter, sculpter, architect, musician, poet, very wide ranging interests, like daVinci or Michelangelo, the sort of guy for whom the term "Renaissance man" was in fact created.
+ Alberti believe that the most important approach for a painter was to capture a story or **narrative**. Now, as I've indicated, this narrative could be either religious or secular, depending on what the work of art was for, if the work was to be placed in a churish then obviously it'd have a religious theme, where as if it was for someone's home, then it could deal with a different subject matter. The exact narrative didn't really matter, so long as it was one that captivated the audience, that held the viewer's attention.
+ So what is actually needed to tell a story? Well, Alberti needed characters, right? Human figures. And he wanted to represent them as **realistically** as possible to capture the viewer's attention. One way he achieve this was to make use of what's known as the **contrapposto** pose.
+ A contrapposto pose bascially entails showing the slight twist in the body. The shoulders and hips are usually bent in different directions. In other words, if the left shoulder is bent so that it's slightly higher than the right shoulder, then the hips will be bent so the left side will be slightly lower than the right side. Similarly, in sculptures, most of the weight seems to be on one foot, which also results in this **slanted** position, making it seem like the figure is about to walk or move. This adds to the realistic aspect of the figure.
+ But there are actually a lot of things that could go wrong in the attempt to create such a pose. You can make a figure's arms bigger than the its legs or the head too small for the body. Messing up the **proporations** can leave a figure looking cartoon-like and unnatural. But Alberti had a solution, he encourage artists to visualize the figure's bones and structure. This would give the artists an idea of the proporation of the figure. From there, Alberti suggested the artists imagine attaching the **tendons** and muscules, then covering those with flesh and skin. Now although these methods may seem complicated, artists since **antiquity** have used **anatomical** observations to try to get the proportions of the human figures as accurate as possible, though obviously not to the degree that Alberti was recommending.
+ Now in addition to characters, the setting is extremely important, especially when attempting to tell a story realistically. Renaissance artists essentially needed to create a three-demensional **scene** on the two-demensional surface. They accomplished this by the use of perspective, a relatively new idea for artists at the time. In particular, the type of perspetive that Alberti advocated was called linear one-point perspective. In fact, Alberti was one of the artists who developed the **geometry** behind linear one-point perspective.
+ Linear perspecive basically consists of drawing straight lines that extended from the forefront of the painting into the background-lines that seem to be parallel to each other, but which acutually **converge** on a single point in the horizons, called the vanishing point. By drawing figure and objects smaller and smaller, as the lines get closer together, the artist is able to create depth in a painting. This gives the illusion of a third demension and makes the works of art more realistic.