# 47-3

+ Now usually when we talk about the birds flying long distances, we're discussing seasonal migration. But there are some speices that fly long distances not as part of the migration but as part of their regular foraging for food. A great example is the albatross. 
+ Albatross are sea birds that nest on island, and forage for food out in the open sea. And you have one species that forages an average of a thousand miles from its nest. And I read in another study where one albatross left a chick in its nest and went out in search food, and by the time it got back to the nest, it had flown nine thousand miles.
+ Why don't build they nest closer to their food supply? I mean for one thing, they must burn up a lot of energy flying back and forth, and also if the parent's gonna have to be away from the nest that much, aren't the chicks going to be pretty hungry most of the time?
+ OK, good question. The chicks are capable of going for a long period time without food, which works out nicely since, as you point out, they may not get to eat that often.
+ As far as the parent go, well first they typically can't get enough good in a single location. So they have to visit serveral places on the same foraging trip, and the location of good foraging grounds tend to be very far apart.
+ And second, they can't always nest on an island that's cloest to the best feeding ground because of some of those island have too many predators on them, predators that would just love to some little chicks to snack on. So I don't think they have much choice.
+ But it still works out because albatross fly using technique called dynamic soaring, which enbales them to cover very long distances while expending very little energy. If it weren't for that, you would be right, they would probably burn up all the energy just flying back and forth.
+ Another fact is albatross lay only one egg at a time, so when parents return with food, that one chick dosen't have to share it with a lot of other chicks.
+ So you say, they may easily fly thousands miles over the open ocean when thye're looking for food.
+ That's right.
+ Then how do they know how to get to food, I mean which direction to take to get the food, and how do they find their way back home.
+ Good point, and the truth is we are not sure. It's very difficult to keep seabirds in capativity where you can study them, and it's very difficult to study them in the wild you know.
+ But we think that a lot of what we've learned about songbird probably applies to seabirds as well. So we're thinking that albatross could make use of the two different kinds of compasses, if you will, a magnetic compass and a celestial compass.
+ The magnetic compass somehow make use of Earth's magnetic field, much the way a standard compass does. But to prove this, we would have to find some kind of magnetic sensory organ in birds. And we are not sure that we have. We have found in birds a mineral called magnetie, which we think might be somehow related to this, because magnetite is a natural magnet. But problem is that we also have found magnetitie in non-migratory birds, which suggestst that it may in fact serve a completely different function, not related to navigation at all.
+ And in other compass, the celestial compass, make use of the stars, more or less the same way humans have historically used the stars to navigate in the open sea. So that's the way we think albatross navigate.
+ So, anyway, you know, think about it, how about if you had to go a thousand miles every time you want to get a bite to eat?
+ We complain about having to walk all the way across the campus to get the cafeteria. 