# 5-2

+ Have you ever heared that the one about alligators living in New York sewers? The story goes like this: a family went on the vacation in Florida and bought a couple of baby alligators as present for their children, then returned for vacation to New York, bringing the alligators home with them as pets. But alligators would escape and find their way into the New York sewer system where they started their reproducing, grew to huge sizes and now strike fear into sewer workers. Have you hear this story? Well, it isn't true and it never happened, but despite that, the story has been around since the 1930s.
+ Or how about the song -- "twinkle, twinkle little star", you know, "twinkle, twinkle, little star how I wonder what you are". Well, we've all heared this song. Well, both the song and the story are examples of the memes, and that's memes and that's what we talked about, the theory of memes. A meme is defined as a piece of information copied from person to person. By this definition, most of what you know ideas, skills ,stories, songs, are memes. All the words you know all the scientific theories you've learn, the rules you parents taught you to observe, all are memes that have been passed on from person to person.
+ So what? you may say. Passing on ideas from on person to another is nothing new. Well, the whole point of defining this familar process as transmission of memes is so that we can explore its analogy with the transmission of genes. As we know, all living organisms pass on by biological information through the genes. What' a genes? A genes is a piece of biological inforamtion that gets copied or replica is passed on to the new generation. So genes are defined as replicators. Genes are replicators that pass on information about properties and characteristics of organisms. By analogy, memes also get replicators and in the process pass on cultural information from person to person, generation to generation. So memes are also replicators.
+ To be a successful replicator, there are three key characterstics: longevity, fecundity, and fidelity. Let's take a close look.
+ First, longevity. A replicator must exist long enough to able to get copied and transfer its information. Clearly, the longer a replicator survives, the better its chances of getting its message copied and passed on. So longevity is a key characteristic of a replicator. If you take the alligator story, it can exist for a long time in individual memory, it's say, my memory. I can tell you the story now or ten years from now, the same with twinkle, twinkle song. So these memes have longevity, because they are memorable for one reason or another.
+ Next, fecundity. Fecundity is the ability to reproduce in large numbers. For example, the common housefly reproduces by laying several thousand eggs, so each fly gene gets copied thousands of times. Memes, well, they can reproduced in large numbers as well. How many times have you soung the "twinkle, twinkle song" to someone? Each time you replicated the song, and maybe passed it along to someone who did not know yet, a small child maybe.
+ And finally, fidelity. Fidelity means accuarcy of the copying process. We know fidelity is an essential principle of genetic transmission. If a copy of a gene is a bit different from the original, that's called a genetic mutation, and mutation are usually bad news. An organism often cannot survive with a mutated gene, and so a gene usually cannot be passed on, unless it's an exact copy. For memes however, fidelity is not always so important. For example, if you tell someone the alligator story I told you today, it probably won't be word for word exactly as I said it. Still, it will be basically the same story, and then person who hears the story will be able to pass it on.
+ Other memes are replicated with higher fidelity though, like the twinkle twinkle song? It had the exact same words 20 years ago as it does now. Well, that's because we see songs as something that has to be performed accurately each time. If you change a word, the others will usually bring you in line. They will say "that's not how you saying it", right?
+ So you can see how looking a piece of cultural information as replicators, as memes, and analying them in terms of longevity, fecundity and fidelity, we can gain some inside about how they spread, persist or change.