# 50-2

+ Ok, last time, we were discussing trade and commerce during the Bronze Age... And I said a little 3000 years ago, there was quite a lively trade among the countries along the Mediterrance Sea, people were making objects out of brones, and they were using bronze tools to make other goods, and they developed trade networks to trade these goods with other countries around Mediterrance...
+ One of these things they traded was glass. And recently there was an archeological excavation in Egypt, on the Nile River, around where it enters the Mediterrance sea, where they discovered an ancient glass factory. Robert?
+ I thought our textbooks said that the Egyptians imported the glass from other countries.
+ Well, until now, that's what the evidence seemed to suggest. I mean we had some evidence that suggested that the Egypt were making glass objects but not glass.
+ Ok, am I missing something? They are making glass, but they are not making glass.
+ I said they were making glass objects, right? You see it was previously thought that they weren't actually making the raw glass itself, that they were importing unfinished glass from Mediterrance, which today is a region consisting of Iraq, and parts of Syria, Turkey and Iran and simply reworking it. Most archaeologists believe that the glass factories were in Mesopotamia because that's where the oldest know glass remains come from. You see there were two stages of glass making, the primary production stage where they made disks of raw glass... And then there was the secondary stage, where they melted the raw glass, the glass disk and created decorative objects, or whatever. And from this new Egyptian site we've learned that the primary production stage had serveral steps. First, they took quartz, a colorless, transparent mineral, and crushed it. Then they tool that crushed quartz and mixed it with the plant ash, "plant ash" is just what is sounds like, the ash that's left after you've burned plant material. They slowly heated this mixture, at a relatively low temperature, in small vessels, contains like jars, made of out of clay. Then and that yield a kind of glassy material.They took this glassy material and ground it up into a powder and then they used metallic dye to color it... After that, they poured the colored powder out into disk-shaped molds and heated it up to very high temperatures, so that it melted. After cooled, they break the molds, and inside there were a glass disks. These disks were shipped off to other sites within Egypt and places around the Mediterrance. Then in the secondary phase, the disks were reheated and shaped into decorative objects.
+ So what kind of objects were people making back then?
+ Well, the most common objects we've found mostly in Egypt And Mesopotamia, the most common objects were beads; one thing Egyptians were very very good at was imitating precious stones, they created some beads that looked so much like emeralds and pearls that it was very difficult to distinguish them from the real thing. And also beatiful vessels, with narrow necks; they were probably really valuable, so they wouldn't have used for hold cooking oil or common food item, they were most likely used for expensive liquids like perfume.
+ Now the glass made at this factory was mostly red; to get this red color they use copper; in a sophisticated process. Of cource
and kind of glass was very valuable, so these red bottles would only have been owned by wealthy people. In fact because it was so difficult to make, and sort of mysterious and complicated, it was probably a product produced for the royal family and probably used glass to show their power. Also beautiful expensive objects make great gifts if you're looking to establish or strengthen political alliances... and it's quite possible that ancient Egypitans were actually exporting glass, not just making it for importing it. The trade with Mesopotamia was probably a friendly, mutual trade because Mesopotamia glass was usually white and yellow, so Mesopotamia might have something like, "We'll give you two white disks for two red disks" There's no proof of that at least not yet...