# 51-2

+ I want to take a look at one particular book to give you an idea about what was involved in publishing illustrated books in the 1800s. The books called The Birds of America, and the illustrator was James Audubon.
+ So, the birds are of America... four volumes which contained illustrations of nearly every birds in the United State, over 400 birds, all hand-colored, all painted life-sized, the larger birds printed on the largest painting paper available at that time. This required a lot of **dedication**, and Audubon is best remembered as an incredibly **meticulous**, accurate artist, a very accomplished illustrator of the natural world. And while there were other artists working on similar projects at the same time, Audubon's book remains the most well-known and successful of its kind. But, let's talk a bit about Audubon himself first.
+ First of all, Audubon was not a traditional painter, dnd by this, I mean that he didn't work in oils. He preferred to use watercolor and **pastel** **crayon**, and he worked on the paper instead of on **canvas**. The thing is, the Audubon considered the illustrations in his book, not the original watercolor to be the finished product. His watercolors were merely **preparatory** studies, most of which were painted while he was observing birds in the wild. These watercolors were then sent to his printer, who created the final prints for the book. And the Audubon was so **concerned** with the accuracy that he often **scribbled** notes to the printer around the **edges** of these original watercolors.
+ In fact, you might question whether the producing a work of art was even the Audubon's goal. No, when I look at the Audubon illustration, I see a work of art. But it may make more sense to consider Audubon, first and foremost, as a naturalist, as a scientist. See, the early 18th century, when Audubon was painting was a time of a major scientific **inquiry**. And an essential way of spreading scientific knowledge was through illustrated books.
+ So what did Audubon consider himself? an artist or a scientist?
+ I'm not sure the distinction between the two was all that clear in 1800s. I think we can accurately state that the driving force in his art was getting the science right. And this was perhaps a point that critics of his artwork at the time just didn't appreciate.
+ Audubon also studied the birds in ways that didn't directly inform his art. You know what bird banding is right? A bird has a band attched to its foot we can learn about things like migration patterns. The first recorded instance of anyone doing that, it was Audubon. Another example, a common belief at the time was that **vultures** use their sense of smell to find food. Audubon didn't believe that, so he tested it. He put a large painting of a dead sheep in a field, and sure enough vultures found it and started pecking at it. Now Audubon's work was very accurate, and we know this because we can compare his illustrations to the birds around us. But sometimes, it's not possible to check. They're actually several birds in his book that on one's ever seen. These are sometimes called Audubon's "**mystery** birds", because even though he **drew** them, there is no evidences that they exist in the wild. For someone who's respected as a naturalist, isn't it strange to think that he drew some birds that don't appear to be real?
+ For example, there is an illustration that appear to be a type of warbler, a small bird. it has a white ring around his eyes and white bars on its wings. No one's ever seen a warbler like this. So some people wonder if Aububon maybe forgot certain details about this bird when he painted it. or that he copied another artist's work. But considering that Audubon was such a meticulous artist. Well, there might be a better answer.
+ Hybridization is something that's well known in birds. And definitely explains a rather unique-looking duct Audubon painted. He himself suggested that maybe it wasn't an unkown species but a hybrid, born from two different speices. Since then this particular crossing of species has actually been recorded, both in the wild and in captivity. So turns out that Audubons was right and this duct actually was a hybrid.