# 53-3

+ Nowdays, we take sound in films or granted, I mean you still might see black and white films occasionally. but you've hardly ever see silent film anymore.
+ So the interesting to note that the use of recorded sound was originally controversial. And some directors, some filmmakers even thought it shouldn't be used. That it would destory the purity of cinema, somehow reverse of all the progress that had been made in the art of cinema. Abby?
+ What about all the sounds you hear in some silent moives? Like I know, a lound sound when somebody falls down or something.
+ Ok, you are talking about a soundtrack added much later, which has overtime because part of the film we know, but this recorded track didn't exist then. And it's not that most people didn't want sound in films, it's just that the technology wasn't available yet. Don't forget that instead of recorded sound there was often live music that accomplished moives in those days, like a piano player or large orchestra in the moive theater.
+ Also, think of the stage, the live theater, it has used wonderful sound effects for a long time. And if wanted these could be produced during the the viewing of a firm. You know, the rolling of drums for thunder or whatever, but that wasn't as commong. And another thing, that they might have in a moive theaters in the early days was a group of live actors reading the parts to go along with the film. Or and this seems a particularly bad ideas to us now, one person narrating the action... an early example of a long tradition of moive producers, the one concerned mostly about making money, not having much confidence in their audience, thinking that the people somehow the couldn't follow the events otherwise.
+ So it finally became possible to paly recorded sound as a part of the film in 1920s. Trouble was, it wasn't always used to be very good effect. first, it was amazing to see somebody's mouth move at the same time you hear the words, or hear a door close when you see it closing on the screen. But that luster wears off of course, and if you're a director, a filmmaker, what's the next step?
+ Well, use sound to enhance the moive right? bring something more to it that wasn't possible. That's exactly what directors who were more interested in cinema art, not commerce, were thinking. But they also predicted that there would be a problem that sound would be misused and boy, was it ever. Because the commerical types, the producers and so on, were thinking, "Ok, now that sound is possible, let's talk as much as possible and forgot about the fact that we're making a moive, that we have this powerful viusal medium."
+ So many of the films of the twenties were basically straight adaptations of sucessful shows from stage, theater. The name they used for sound films that was "talking films", and that was on the mark, since well, all they pretty much did was talk, and talk, so the remedy?
+ Well, what was proposed by a number of filmmakers and theorists was creative, expressive use of sound, what they generally called **nonsynchronous** sound. Ok, nonsynchronous sound means basically that whay they hear is what they see. Everything on the soundtrack is seen on the screen.
+ And everything was recorded simultaneously, which since the sound technicians working on films often had experiences with life radio, that made sense to them. Recording the sound separately and adding it in afterward, that idea was less obvious. Any synchronous sound means the soruce of sound is the image on the screen. nonsynchronous sound then, is...
+ The sound dosen't match the picture?
+ Right, now we can look at this in various ways, but let's take it as literally as possible.
+ Music, unless we see the radio or the orchestra that's nonsynchronous. If the camera shot is of the listener rather than the speaker, that's nonsynchronous. If we hear, see, background sound that aren't on the screen, that's nonsynchronous.
+ So, that's doesn't seem so radical, does it? But again, those early producers didn't think their audiences could keep up with this.
+ Excuse me, but did you say earlier that some filmmakers actually advocated not using sound at all.
+ Yes, but that was a bit of an exaggeration, I guess. What I meant to say some filmmakers thought that the way the film sound was actually used was setting the art of filmmaking back. But everyone agree that sound solved some difficult issues and offered potentially exciting tools.