# 54-4

+ S: So Professor Baker, about our next assigment you talked about in class.
+ P: Yes, this time you'll be in groups of three. Each of you will have a choice to direct the other two in a short scene from a play you've chosen youself.
+ S: And I've been thinking about a story theatre, and...
+ P: A story theater, tell me about what you've read.
+ S: It's a form of theater where fork, or fairy tales are acted out. It was a introduced by the director Paul Sills in the 1960s. In Sills' approach, an actor both narrates and acts out a tale. So like someone will appear on stage, and then they'll start narrating a tale about, say , a king. And then the same person will immediately switch to and start acting out the role of the king. With no props or scenery.
+ P: Sills. you know I actually saw his first story theatre production in 1968. He did the fairy tale in "The Blue Light".
+ S: Really, so whatever give him idea to produce that?
+ P: As you know, back in late the 1960s, lots of people in the United State were disillusioned with the government. Sills' was grapping with how to produce theater that was relevant in such times. Then he happened to read The Blue Light and he realized that just the message he wanted. See, In the story, a man who's lost all hope as a result of the unfortunate events in his life, completely turns his life around with the hlep of a magical blue light. The blue light in the story symbolizes a way out of seemingly unsolvable human problems. So for Sills, that light symbolized an answer to the political **turmoil** in the U.S.
+ S: But weren't you ... audience bothered that the actors were performing on a bare stage?
+ P: Story theatre is a depature from traditional dramatic theory, with its realistic elaborate props and scenery. But Sills could make us "see", say a big tall mountain, through the facial expression and body movement of the actors, and their telling and the story. We were all swept all, energized by such an innovative approach to theater even if one or two the critics weren't as enthusiastic.
+ S: So anyway, what really I want to ask I'd love to try doing story therater for my project, instead of just a scene from a tradtional play.
+ P: That's possible, a short tale can be about the same length as a single scene, which fairy tale would you do?
+ S: Actually, I was reading about another director of stroy theratre, Rex Stephenson. You know, he produces a play based on folk tales as well, maybe I could direct one of those.
+ P: Ok, yes, Res Stephenson. Now, Stephenson's style of story theatre is a little different from Sills's. He'll use simple props, a chair will represent a mountain,but the significant differences is with the narrator, the narrator will play only that role.