# 6-6

+ We're really just now beginning to understand how quickly drastic climate change can take place. We can see past occurrences of cliate change that took place over just a few hundred years.
+ Take the Sahara Desert in Nothern Africa. The Sahara was really different six thousands years ago. I mean you wouldn't call it a tropical paradise or anything, or maybe you would if you think about how today in some parts of the Sahara, it only rains about once a century. But basically, you had greenary and you had water. 
+ And what I find particularly interesting and amazing really, what really indicates how desert like the Sahara was thousands of years ago was something painted on the rock, pre-historic art, hippopotamuses. Ad you know, hoppos need a lot of water and hence? hence what?
+ They need to live near a large of water around.
+ That's right.
+ But how is that prove that the Sahara used to be a lot of wetter? I mean the peopel who painted those hippos, well, couldn't they have seen them on their travels.
+ In principle they could, but the rock paintings aren't the only evidence. Beneath the Sahara are huge aquifers, bascially a sea of fresh water that's perhaps a million years old, filtered through rock layers. And then there is fossilized pollen, from low shrubs and grasses that once greew in the Sahara. In fact, these plants still grew, but hundres of miles away, in more vegetated areas. Anyway, it's fossilized pollen along with acquires and the rock paintings, these three things all evidence that has the Sahara was once much grener than it is today, that there were hippos are probably elephants and giraffes and so on.
+ So what happened?
+ How did it happened?
+ Well now, we've so used to hearing about how humans activities are affecting the climates, right? but that takes the focus away from the natural variations in the earth climate, like the Ice Age, right? The plants was practically covered in ince just a few thousand years ago. Now as far as the Sahara goes, there is some recent literature that points to the migration of the monsoon in that area. What do I mean? Ok, monsoon is a seasonal wind that can bring in a large amount of of rainfall. Now, if the monsoon migrates, well that means that the rains move to another area, right?
+ So what caused the monsoon to migrates. Well the answer is: the dynamics of earth's motions, the same thing that caused the Ice Age by the way. The earth not always in the same distance from the sun, and it's not always tilting toward the sun at the same angle. There are slight variations in these parameters. They're gradual variations but their effects can be pretty abrupt, and can cause the climate to change in just a few hundred years.
+ That's abrupt?
+ Well, yeah, consdering that other climate shifts take thousands of years, this one is pretty abrupt. So these changes and planet's motions, they caused the climate to change, but it was also compounded. What the Sahara experienced was sort of runaway drying effect. As I said monsoon migrated south, there was less rain in the Saraha. The land started to get drier, which in turn caused the huge decrease in the amount of vegetation, because vegetation doesn't grow as well as in dry soil, right? And then less vegetation means the soil can't hold water as well, the soil loses their ability to retain water when it does rain. So then you have less mositure to help clouds form, nothing to evaporate for cloud formation. And then the cycle continues, less rain, drier soil, less vegetation, fewer clouds, less rain, etc.
+ But what about the people who made the rock paintings?
+ Good question, no one really knows. But there might be some connections to ancient Egypt. And about the same time that the Sahara was becoming a desert, 5000 years ago. Egypt really began to flourish out in the Nile valley. And that's not that far away. So it's only logical to hypothesize that a lot of these people migrate to the Nile valley when they realized that this was more than a temporary drought. And some people takes this a step further, and that's Ok, that's science, and they hypothesize that this migration actually provided an important impetus in the deelopment of ancient Egypt. Well, we'll stay tuned on that.