# 7-3

+ So that's how elephants use **infrasound**. Now let's talk about the other end of the acoustical **spectrum**, sound that is too high for humans to hear, ultrasound.
+ Ultrasound is used by many animlas that detect , and some of them, send out very high-frequency sounds. So what's a good example?
+ Bats, since they are all **blind**, bats have to use sound for, you know, to keep from flying into things.
+ That's echolocation. Echolocation is pretty self-**explanatory**, using echoes, reflected sound waves, to locate things. bats use it for **navigation** and **orientation**, what else?
+ Finding food is always important, and I guess not becoming food for other animals.
+ Right, on both counts. Avoiding other **predators**, and locating prey, typically insects that fly around at night. Now before I go on, let me just respond to something Carol was saying, this idea that bats are blind. Actually there are some species of bats, the ones that don't use echoloaction, that do rely on their vision for navigation, but it's ture for many bats that their vision is too weak to count on.
+ Ok, so quick summary of how echolocation works. The bats emits these **ultrasonic** **pluses**, very high **pitched** sound waves that we can't hear, and then they analyze the echoes, how the waves bounce back. Here, let me finish this **diagram** I started before the class. So the bat sends out these pluses, very focused **bursts** of sound, and the echoes bounce back. You know, I don't think I need to draw in the echoes, your reading assignment for the next class, it has diagram shows this very clearly, so any way as I was saying...
+ By analyzing these echoes, the bat can determine if there is wall in a cave that needs to avoid and how far away it is. And another thing it uses the ultrasound to detect, is the size and shape of objects. For example, one echo they quickly identified is one they associated with **moth**, which is common prey for a bat, particularly a moth beating its **wings**. However, moth happened to have major advantage over most other insects, they can detect ultrasound, this means that when the bat approaches, the moth can detect the bat's presence. So it has time to escape to safety, or else they can just remain **motionless**. Since when they stop beating their wings, they will be much harder for the bat to distinguish from a leaf or some other object.
+ Now we have tended to **understimate** just how the sophisticated the abilities of animals that use ultrasound are. In fact, we kind of assume that they were **filtering** a lot out, the way a sophisticated radar system can **ignore** echoes from a stationary objects on the ground. Radar does this to remove "ground **clutter**", information about hills or buildings that it doesn't need... But bats, we thought they were filtering out this kind of information, because they simply couldn't alayze it. But it looks as if we were wrong. Recently there was this experiments with trees and a specific species of bats, a bat called the lesser **spear**-nosed bat.
+ Now a tree should be a huge acoustical challenge for bat, right? I mean it got all kind of surfaces with different shapes and angles. So the echo from a trees going to be a mass of **chaotic** acoustic reflections, right? Not like the echoes from a moth. So we thought, for a long time that bats stopped their **evaluation** at simply "that's a tree". It turns out that bats, or at least this particular species, can not only tell that it's a tree, but also distinguish between a pine tree and a deciduous tree, like a maple or an oak tree, just by their leaves, and when I say leaves, I mean pine **needles**, too. Any ideas on how it would know that.
+ Like with the moth, could it be their shape?
+ You are on the right track. It's actually the echo off all the leaves, as a whole, that matters. Now think, a pine tree with all those little, **densely** **packed** needles...those produces a large number of faint reflections in what's called a "smooth" echo, the waveform is very even. But an oak which has fewer but bigger leaves with stronger reflections produces **jagged** wave form, or what we called a **rough** echo. And this bats can distinguish between of two, and not just with trees but with any echo that comes in a smooth or rough shape.