Q: Governebts should spend more money in support of arts than in support of athletics such as state-sponsored Olympics teams.

思路：
1. 选择支持体育运动
2. 体育运动的发展可以引起人们对身体健康的意识，让更多的人参与进来并且从中得到好处。
3. 支持体育运动发展可以

中文：
1. 艺术和体育是与公民实际生活密切相关的两个重要组成部分。有些人可能会说，在有限的预算内，艺术应该首先被考虑，因为艺术在培养人们的审美。然后我认为，投入资金发展体育运动比发展艺术更重要。
2. 毫无疑问的是艺术对市民，社会都是非常重要的，首先艺术可以陶冶人们的情操，丰富公民的精神生活，改善社会的风气面貌。但是艺术的发展需要耗费更多的金钱和精力，并且很多家庭没有足够的经济去支持孩子去学习艺术，这也就意味着艺术的受众有限。最后身体健康也是学习艺术的前提。
3. 相较于培养艺术，投入金钱在培养居民的体育运动方面，好处会更多。首先，一个好的身体是做任何事情的前提，身体素质的提高可以支持人们更好的工作生活学习，对于艺术的培养也有促进作用，其次身体素质的改善，也更有助于精神面貌的改善，可以培养国民的自信心。最后全民的身体素质的提高，减少去治疗的频率，也有助于国家在医疗上面的补贴，可以节省更多的资源去发展其他领域，比如艺术等。
4. 所以政府应该在体育运动方面投入更多的金钱去帮助提高居民的身体素质。


Contexts：
    Arts and athletics are two essential parts related to citizen's actual lives. Some may argue that with limited budgets, arts should be prioritized because they are crucial in developing people's aesthetics. However, I firmly believe putting money into developing athletics in relatively important than arts.
    There is no doubt that arts are significant for both residents, and even the whole society, since it can cultivate people's sentiment, enrich citizen's spiritual life, and improve social atmosphere. Nevertheless, the development of the whole arts will spend more financing of the government than athletics. Furthermore, a host of family have no enough economy base to support their children to learn art, so not many people benefit directly from investing money to develop the art, and it will spend several generations to take effect if we want to improve people’s aesthetic appreciation. Finally, prerequisite of learning art is also to have a good body.
    Compared to supporting the development of art, there are more advantages to support athletics. firstly, it can improve the physical fitness of the residents and the enhancement of the physical body can support people to better work, study and life, including the cultivation of national art. Secondly, the growth of the physical quality for all residents in the country also can discover more sport's talents to win more trophies in various international sports competitions, and these achievements also can help people to build more confidence. Last but not least, the improvement of the whole citizen's physical body can reduce the frequency to go to the hospital, which can also reduce the national investment in medical care, and help country to save more resources to put into other fields, such as art.
    So, it is advisable for government to help people to improve their physical body by putting more money in athletics.



Example：
    Arts and athletics are two essential parts related to citizen's actual lives.
    some may argue that with limited budgets, arts should be prioritized because they are crucial in developing people's aesthetics. However, I firmly believe putting money into developing athletics in relatively more important than arts.
    First,promoting sports is beneficial to citizen's health. A health body is essential for a happy life. If we do not care about our bodies, diseases like diabetes will strike. In the COVID-19 epidemic, a healthy body is a strong barrier to being infected by the virus. Paying more money for sports has just that effect. If the governments pay more effect into sports teams like national Olympic teams, the public will want to be like those athletes and work harder and exercise more. The China National Women's volleyball team, which participated and won in the Olympics last century, Had fostered the Chinese Public to spare no effects to sports, Just like this champion, and this improved the National Health level.

Example_2:
A national government  always  plays  a  important  role  in  the  development  of  the  country,  since  it  usually  controls  and  manages  the  country's  financial  funds.  Today,  a  question  about  how  to  spend  these  funds  has  been  brought  to  the  center  of  heated  debates.  Some  economists  claim  that  rulers  are  supposed  to  put  more  money  to  develop  the  arts,  while  others  insist  that  the  athletics  is  the  direction  which  need  more  funds  from  the  government.  From  my  own  perspective,  I  would  express  my  appreciation  for  the  latter.

First  and  foremost,  offering  more  financial  supports  to  the  athletics  is  benefical  both  of  the  athletes  and  the  nation.  For  the  athletes,  they  can  spend  this  money  improving  their  living  and  exercising  conditions.  For  example,  the  coaches  and  player  could  construct  plenty  of  sport  facilities,  eat  more  nutrient  foods,  and  even  participat  different  games  to  hone  their  skills  and  strategies.  Meantime,  though  using  money  to  support  these  potential  athletes  who  have  opportunities  to  win  champions  at  the  international  games,  the  nation  will  boost  its  international  images  and  feel  a  sense  of  honor  and  fulfillment.  Thus,  since  this  investment  is  going  to  result  in  a  win-win  outcome,  there  is  no  reason  we  do  not  spend  more  money  on  the  sports.

Further,  providing  more  money  in  support  of  the  sports  is  able  to  raise  citizens'  awareness  of  health.  It  is  no  denying  that  lack  of  exercise  consciousness  is  one  of  the  root  reasons  why  modern  people  have  been  suffering  from  various  diseases  over  years.  However,  the  government  is  able  to  encourage  citizens  to  join  into  the  sports  activities  by  building  more  sports  infrastructures,  broadcasting  these  activities  on  televison  or  internet,  and  even  advertising  certain  sports  brand  products.  When  the  citizens'  consciousness  is  stimulated,  the  health  conditions  will  sooner  go  up.  By  contrast,  this  unique  benefit  cannot  be  accomplished  by  investing  money  in  the  arts.

Admittedly,  spending  money  supporting  the  arts  is  also  of  importance  to  some  extent.  For  example,  entertainments  brought  by  the  arts,  like  dance  and  singing,  could  release  people's  pressure  from  work  and  study.  However,  moderate  exercise  every  day  can  achieve  similar  effects,  or  even  better.  So,  this  merit  cannot  be  the  major  reason  that  government  should  put  more  funds  into  the  advancement  of  the  arts.

In  conclusion,  although  the  developments  of  the  arts  and  the  sports  are  important  and  necessary,  it  is  self-evident  that  government  ought  to  fund  more  money  to  the  athletics  since  it  will  not  only  strenghen  the  living  conditions  of  the  players  and  bring  a  sense  of  honor  to  our  nation,  but  also  augment  people's  healthy  awareness.  Therefore,  I  believe  the  sports  is  worthwhile  of  using  more  money  from  the  government.


单词：
1. athletics:体育运动