# 14-1
+ S: Hi, I am looking for this book, The Amercian Judical System, And I can't seem to find it for anywhere. I need to read a chapter for my political science class.
+ T: Let me check in the computer. Doesn't seem to be checked out and it's not on reserve. You've checked the shelves I assumed.
+ S: Yeah, I even checked other shelves and tables next to where the book should be.
+ T: Now, it's still here in the library, so people must be using it. You know, this seem to be a very pouplar book tonight. We show six copes, none are checked out, and yet you didn't even find one copies on the shelves. Is it a big class.
+ S: Maybe about seventy-five.
+ T: Wow, you should ask your professor to put some of the copies on reserve. You know about the reserve system, right?
+ S: I know that you have to read reserve books in the library and that you have time limits. But I didn't know that I could ask a professor to put a book on the reserve. I mean I thought the professors make that kind of decisions at the beginning of the semester.
+ T: Oh, they can put the books on reserve at anytime during the semester.
+ S: You know, the reserving books seems a bit unfair. What if someone who is not in the class wants to use the book?
+ T: That's why I said some copies.
+ S: Well, I'll certainly talk to my professor about it tommorow. But what I am gonna do tonight?
+ T: I guess you could walk around the Poli-sci section and look at the books waiting to be re-shelved.
+ S: There are do seem to be more than normal.
+ T: We are a little short of staff right now, someone quit recently. So things aren't getting reshelved as quickly as usual. I don't think they've hired a replacement yet, so yeah, the unshelved books can get a bit out of hand.
+ S: This may sound a bit wired, but I've been thinking about getting a job. I've never work at the library before, but...
+ T: That's not a requirement, the job might still be open. At the beginning of the semester, we were swamped with applications but I guess that everyone who wants a job has one by now.
+ S: What can you tell me about the job?
+ T: Wow, we work between six and ten hours a week, so it's a reasonable amount. Usually we can pick the hours we want work, but since you've be starting so late in the semester, I am not sure how that would work for you. And oh, We get paid the normal university rates for the student employees.
+ S: So, who do I talk to?
+ T: I guess you talk to Dr.jenkins, the head library. She does the hiring.