# 17-1
+ T: Ok, let's see, right, "Modern staging of a Shakespearean classic". well, like I told you last week I think that's a great topic for your paper. So the title'll be something like...
+ S: I am not really sure. Probably something like "Twentity-Century Staging Of A Midsummer Night's Dream"
+ T: Yes, I like that, Straight forward and to the point, So how's the research going.
+ S: That's what I came to talk to you about. I was wondering if you happened to have a copy of a Peter Brook production of A Midsummer Night's Dream in your video collection. I've been looking for it everywhere and I'm having a really hard time for ticking it down.
+ T: That's because it doesn't exist.
+ S: You mean in your collection or at all.
+ T: I mean at all, That particular production was never filmed or recorded.
+ S: Oh, no, I have no idea. From what I've read, That production, like, it influenced every other productions of the play that came after it so...I just assumed it had been filmed or videotaped.
+ T: Oh, it definitely was a landmark production, and it's not like it ran for just a week. but either it was never filmed or if it was, the film has been lost. It's a ironic because there's even a film about the making of the prodution, but none of the prodution itself.
+ S: So, now what do I do... if there's no video?
+ T: Well, think about it, this is the most important twentith-century staging of the A Midsummer Night's Dream, Right?
+ S: But How can I write about Brook's interpretation of the play if I can't see his production?
+ T: Just because there's no recording doesn't mean you can't figure out how it influenced other productions.
+ S: I guess there's enough material around. But it'll be a challenge.
+ T: True, But think about it. You're writing about dramatic arts...the theater, that's the natrue of the theater, isn't it?
+ S: You mean because it's live, when the performance is finished...
+ T: That's it. Unless it's filmed, it's gone. But that doesn't mean we can't study it. And of course, some students in the class are writing about productions in the nineteenth century, and there are no videos of those. 
+ S: You know, one of the challanges for people who study the theater is to find ways of talking about something that's really so transient, about something that in a sense, doesn't exist.